Phenotype, Genotype, Gene, Allele, & Locus:
A genotype is like a DNA of a solution. A single connection like TA or CG
in DNA is called a single gene. The gene's value is called allele, and its
position in the DNA sequence is called a locus. The genotype represents
our solution to the problem, so if we use the genotype to construct it
the object constructed is called a phenotype, an implementation.



--- Genotype Types ---

Binary Genotype Representation:
This is a genotype where in every gene an allele is either of a state A
or a state B, most often it is either true / false or 1 / 0.

Integer Genotype Representation:
This is a genotype where in every gene an allele is an integer.
Often it includes the negatives as well. Integers may also
represent a string or something of sorts.

Floating Point / Real Genotype Representation:
This is a genotype where in every gene an allele is a
floating point or a real value, this includes negatives too.

Permutation Genotype Representation:
This is like an integer genotype, except that the integers
are used not as actual numbers, but as indicators or representations.
This type of genotype is more about order in which these values
are placed in. This also means that the values all must be unique,
so no repetitions. Further details of the order is to be determined.



---Value Crossovers ---

N-Point Crossover:
N represents the number of cuts/splits we do. So if we have a genotype
it gets split into multiple genotypes which are then exchanged between
it and another individual's genotype that is split in the same way.
So if it is 3-point, then the genotype is split into 4, because 3 cuts.

Discrete Recombination:
When combining the two genotypes, instead of switching one with another
we can also take an average of both and thus create an exact copy of both.
Doesn't work with binary tho, can't take average of "true" and "false".

Intermediate Recombination:
This one takes a random value and decides how much the first one
impacts the result, the more the first one impacts, the less the
other one does, thus the formula for an allele for a new child
A becomes A = cx + (1 - c)y where x is from parent 1 and y from 2.
The constant c is a random value, sometimes static (determined).

Simple Arithmetic Crossover:
This is a combination of discrete and n-point crossovers. You
basically do some cuts and some of the splits are intersected in
a way in which the discrete recombination works, rest is ignored.



--- Permutation Crosssovers ---

Partiall Mapped Crossover (PMX):
Picks a sequence of length n and same start in both genotypes.
the sequence from gene a is then put into gene b, the rest is
then filled in order starting from the end of a sequence. First
we attempt to copy each gene of the original (since the sequence
is from a the original is the one being modified, so b) if b's
gene is a duplicate, then the one look at what that duplicate number
has replaced in the sequence and repeat this process until one is
not a duplicate. Also, vice versa for the second child so from b to a.

Example let a = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9} and let
b = {9, 3, 7, 8, 2, 6, 5, 1, 4}. We choose n = 4 and
start to be locus number 3 (so number 4 from a). So
the first child (a to b) becomes {9, 4, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 1, 8}.

This type of crossover is said to preserve the adjacency,
so if gene x was adjacent to y, it probably still is.
It is possible for none to be after PMC.

Edge Recombination:
...

Order Crossover:
...

Cycle Crossover:
...



--- Value Mutations ---

Mutations change the values, to a new random value. In the binary
genotype the values are simply flipped. In the integer and floating
point there is ususally a range given. The exact sequence in which
the mutations occur can be different.

Uniform Mutation:
Mutation that is very, very often used in intger and real value
representations unless a pre-made start is already given. Like
mentioned before, a value is chosen from a pre-made range of values.

Non-Uniform Mutations:
Instead of changing an allele to a random value, we instead
deviate it by some randomly generated value, so instead of
changing an allele from 5 to randomly generated 1, we instead
create a deviation of -1, so 5 - 1 = 4 which is the new value.

Creep Mutation:
When some values are more favored than the others, so some
have a higher change of occuring than the rest then the
mutation is sort of biased and is therefore called creep.

Random Resetting:
Whenever a whole genotype is reset to some random one, that
is called a random resetting. We completely randomize the genotype.



--- Permutation Mutations ---

Swap Mutation:
Changes the locus of two genes in a genotype. This often
happens at random, sometimes multiple times or in a sequence.

Insert Mutation:
Chooses first gene and a second one. The second one is then placed
to the right (after) the first gene. Sometimes applied multiple times.

Scramble Mutation:
Picks a sequence of some length n and completely randomizes
the order of that specific sequence, rest remains the same.

Inverse Mutation:
Picks a sequence of some length n and flips it, rest is same.
