--- Multimodality ---
The goal of multimodality is:
- Have multiple solutions so we have more diversity and less exploitation
- Reason: Environment might get different or be different

Implicit Approach:
- Achieves the goal during a parent selection stage
- It works by producing more of the unique offspring
- This way, the pressure does not get lower, the sample is

Explicit Approach:
- Achieves the goal during a survivor selection stage
- It works by separating the competition into different groups
- This way, different solutions compete locally for the optimum



--- Implicit Algorithms ---

Automatic Speciation
- Choose parents of similar geno- or phenotypes
- That is done either through an extra genome (id) or similar solutions

Geographical Separation
- Simply divide the simulation into multiple parts and run it in parallel
- This is done in hopes of getting different solutions from each simulation
- After we sometimes send some of the competitors between islands



--- Explicit Algorithms ---

Fitness Sharing:
- Share a portion of the fitness score with other similar solutions
- Ensures bad solutions are dropped out, and the good, but different, are kept

To share a fitness we need to define how far apart these solutions can
be from each other such that they are considered similar or in same group.
once we have the distance d, we define a function share(d) which gives us
a multiplier. So for a solution x where the old score is s and new is s'
becomes s' = s / sum(share(d(x, y))) where y is a solution that satisfies
share(d) = if d < b then 1 - (d / b)^a} else 0. Here b and a are two
parameters that we can tune, b for neigbour recognition, and a for
how little rising distance between x and y matters.

Crowding:
- The offspring compete with the closest parent so the competition is local
- Solutions are even more isolated with their groups than in Fitness Sharing



--- Hybrids ---

Hybradisation:
Whenever we combine evolutionary algorithm with some
more specific and determenistic solutions to the said
problem, so we add some knowledge to the model first,
then the AI becomes more specialized, but also better
at this specific problem solving.

Memetic Algorithms:
This is basically the algorithm that introduces
hybradisation to AI. So it is like doing a local
search to modify the AI manually, if AI is better
then we keep the change, otherwise we ignore them.

Also note that memetic algorithms often use Lamarckian
Evolution (debunked but useful here). So as the AI is being
tested it also learns and some modifications are attempted
to be made to make it better within the environment which
are then passed down to the offsprings. So like embedding
the environmental changes into the DNA (not possible irl).



--- Multi Goals ---

Multi-Objective Setting Dominance:
Whenever we want to maximize two things that might not
go well hand in hand with each other for example maximize
capacity and minimize size (more capacity -> more size)
we compare the solutions in the following way: If solution
X is better than Y in everything, then X dominates Y.
If X is strictly better in at least 1 characteristic than
Y then X also dominates Y. This domination is then used to
help compare the solutions.

Weighted Sum:
One of the solutions to tackle problems where compromises
between goals should be made is to create a weight such
that a goal x is worth n, and goal y is worth m. And
then we combine them into a single goal to maximize.

Pareto Front:
This is a set of solutions that are not dominated
by anything in Multi-Objective Setting Dominance.
Saving a bunch of solutions that are not dominated
via elitism and then choosing one from the pareto front
is great since it also includes lots of variety.
