--- Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) ---
Remember how IPs were split into A, B, and C levels where the higher the level, the more global IP addresses they may have? Such as A having 3 bytes, B having 2 bytes, and C having 1 byte. CIDR is basically the new standard which
is where we split the networks not by bytes in size, but by bits in size for more control (and because why not? the
idea of splitting by bytes makes no sense). For that we use the notation where the subnet mask is involved. The
subnet mask basically says how many bits are used to get to the LAN's host router. For example 192.168.1.10/24
where the left is the IP from layer 3 it is trying to reach, and 24 is its subnetmask (equivalent to 255.255.255.0)
which tells the current router whether the destination network is inside its LAN or not, and if not we forward to
default gateway. To find out if it is in the same LAN, simply use the mask to remove all the IPs that can point to
some device within your LAN using bitwise AND operation, and then use ARP if the destination IP is in the LAN.

Example: Destination IP = 192.168.1.13, My IP = 192.168.1.17, My subnet mask = 24, i.e 255.255.255.0. Then we apply
the subnet mask on both IPs, A = 192.168.1.13 & 255.255.255.0 = 192.168.1.0, B = 192.168.1.17 & 255.255.255.0 =
192.168.1.0. As you can see, A == B is True, thus we use ARP because we are in the same LAN. If we would not have
been in the subnet, then A == B would be False, and then our machine (whether it is a computer, phone, router,
switch, doesn't matter) would forward to its default gateway. Note that routers have lookup tables when forwarding,
but I am not sure how they work exactly (either I didn't understand or don't remember). They make the routing
faster though.

If we used default gateway, and then reach a point where the destination IP is now within scope (i.e. LAN), we
might not know which router to forward to using ARP. For example, if we have a router A which has devices B and C
as well as routers D, E, and F all of which are directly connected to A, and we receive a request from router F, it
is possible that F is trying to reach either one of B or C, or one of the end-devices in D or E. We use subnet mask
with the longest fit to determine whether it is one of the end-devices in A that we were trying to reach, or one of
the end devices in either D or E (depends on the subnet mask whether F tried to reach D or E, can't be more than 1
of the routers within A at once). For a precise example check out "CIDR Longest Match Rule X.png" where X is one of
the examples from the series.



--- IPv4 vs IPv6 & Notation ---
We also touch the differences between IPv4 and IPv6, check out "IPv4 vs IPv6.png" for more details. The gray parts
is what has been removed, i.e. which parts of IPv4 are not included in IPv6, mostly because they were dumb...
Note that IPv6 is written as hexadecimals instead of demicals for short, and the separator is ":" instead of ".",
and the separator ":" is used every 4 hexadecimals. We also use "::" instead of any combination of zeroes after the
first 64 bits, i.e. 16 hexadecimals such as "ABCD:0000:EFGH" = "ABCD::EFGH" where all the letters are variables, or
like in "ABCD:0000:0000:0000:EFGH" = "ABCD::EFGH". That is because the last 16 hexadecimals (after the 16 first),
are split up by the admin just like the rest of the IPs in the subnet of IPv4. We also have subnet mask notation in
IPv6 too, but it is used only for the first 16 hexadecimals, like I mentioned before the other 16 hexadecimals are
used for other purposes (IPv6 is 32 hexadecimals, aka 128 bits, aka 16 bytes, in size).



--- TCP, UDP, and Ports ---
Now for the layer 4 in the ISO model where we find TCP, UDP, and other connection types... In the course, we call
TCP messages, UDP datagrams, and ISO is TPDU (Transport Protocol Data Unit, i.e. ISO's 4th layer). Layer 4 is
basically carrying all the data on which connection type it wants to establish as well as the ports. Check out the
C code "UDP & TCP in C.png". Note that IANA maintains the list of all the well known ports such as SSH, HTTP,
HTTPS, DNS, etc.

The first 1024 ports are officially reserved by the IANA. So a port like 443 (HTTPS) is simply a convention
enforced by most applications and servers. It at least requires admin privileges to change this setup or something
like that I believe... But frankly I could create a server listening on port 443 but processing it as HTTP. Though
browsers won't tolerate that and the user's devices often assume that 443 is an HTTPS meaning that the user's
devices and browsers will expect a TLS handskahe first, which will fail the connection request.

Anyways, here you can also see whether these ports use UDP or TCP. To connect to a device listening on port 22
it most likely expects an SSH protocol to be used and a TCP handshake connection to be established. If I were to
try and request a connection on port 22 but on UDP, most likely nobody is listening to this channel and thus the
connection would fail. A device listening on port 22 TCP may not listen on port 22 UDP, and vice versa, because the
OS does a clear distinction between the two and treats them as separate. This also implies other connection types
such as DCCP and SCTP.

The rest of the ports between and including 1024 and 49151 can be reserved by private organizations, but not
enforced on the machine (I think that is what they meant), so if I already have port 1024 in use, then nothing will
break (I believe). The enforcement part is kind of vague, because the AI explained it simply being a well-known
convention and not an enforcement, which I do find to make more sense.

The port reservation is done for security reasons. Like root privileges being required to ignore the 0 - 1023 port
rule. This is done so that unprivileged processes won't be able to impersonate some "well-known services". The
1024 - 49151 ports are just "registered ports", which aren't enforced in any way, not these days at least. But,
there are some pre-defined ports by the OS called Ephemeral Ports typically around 49152 - 65535. These are used
for websites opened by your browser, servers, as well as by the OS itself.



--- Connections Via an Example ---
So whenever I, the client which we will call A2, try to watch YouTube for example I first open the browser which
creates a new process and my OS assigns it a new port within the 49152 - 65535 range. Then my router: A1, port
forwards it so A2 can receive back a response. This port forwarding is in a TCP-3 format: [A2's IP, A2's Port,
TCP]. Note that NAT changes it to A1's IP and A1's Port that it keeps a table of, and that the "TCP" simply
signifies which type of connection it is. A2 then sends a request to the website's router: B1, using port 443 which
is HTTPS through A1 which used a NAT. B1 must have already had its TCP-3 open which directs A2's request to some
server B2 within its LAN that B1 connects me to. This B2 is always listening to this port 443 and redirects any
connection requests to one of its free servers B3 that handle this type of stuff (often used to manage multiple
users, but not when I host my own server on my PC for example, that would be overkill). Once B3 accepts the
connection request B2 issues a request to B1 to port forward B3 using a TCP-5 format: [A2's IP, A2's Port, B3's
IP, B3's Port, TCP]. We do add this port forwarding rule to allow for limitless connections where each server's
process isn't limited to a single user, but to the amount it can physically handle simultaneously. Note that after
that B3 sends an acknowledgment message to A2 so that A1 may also do a TCP-5 port forwarding. After that A2 sends a
message to B3 to let it know that the connection was a success. Note that B2 never had any connection established
and simply forwarded the request. In small systems there is no B2, and the listening is done by B3. Now, we have
estabilshed a TCP connection and I can browse videos on YouTube (not watch them yet).

However, once I choose a video I also have to establish one more TCP connection with the video server on port 554
which creates another process A3 on my device that communicates with the video server's process B5 (B4 is the
intermediary server similar to B2). So the TCP connection here is done in the same way as shown in the previous
example. After that both A3 and B5 open a yet another dynamic port and share it to each other. Then A3 port
forwards using a UDP-3 format: [B5's IP, B5's Port, UDP], and B5 port forwards: [A3's IP, A3's Port, UDP]. This
way both can quickly receive data from each other.

P.S. For some reason, when a single IP has multiple ports open it is called multiplexing and de-multiplexing (from
the MUX logic gate). But like... isn't IP + Port just an address? Maybe I should check out what MUX does...

Also, Sockets is what we call these connections, i.e. the combination of IP:Port:Type where Type is a TCP/UDP/etc.
The OS actually differentiates between TCP and UDP and others, so there can be for example both TCP : 7777 and
UDP : 7777 connections on the same machine simultaneously, where the TCP is used for some process A and UDP is
used for some other and completely irrelevant process B. Also, Port 7777 and 27015 may be for the same process A,
so different ports don't imply different processes. So whenever coding, the processes use sockets to get and send
data. Anyways, A socket is made of 5 parts: SenderIP, SenderPort, ReceiverIP, ReceiverPort,ConnectionType. Like
with TCP from the example that we've seen, but  sometimes of 3 parts like with UDPs or TCP-3s. For that we keep a
separate list of these connections and redirect them as needed (the routers do that since they are the ones that
use NAT). Before the connection is established, the server must first be ready to listen. This means that the
server has a port open where anyone may connect. Once someone does and the TCP is established a copy of the
connection is made (a 5-tuple TCP socket), and the old 3-tuple socket resets and listens for someone next. Note
that this is a TCP unique thing, since UDP just sends data this makes a 3-tuple sufficient enough.



--- Domain Name System (DNS) ---
By the way, when it comes to DNS which translates IPs to domain names (like https://142.250.68.206 becoming
https://google.com), these are maintained by the ICANN (authority that distributes IPs in the US I think). Like,
you know how IPs were distributed and assigned to different countries, and that these countries further assign IPs
and such, well ICANN maintains a table of who it distributed some of the IPs to, like ".no" being managed by
UNINETT. UNINETT itself also distributed those IPs that it got, like UiO getting its fair share with ".uio" ending.
UiO itself also distributed them and IFI got its share with the ".ifi" ending, and there we got a server called
"login". So, whenever you want to get to the login server instead of some IPv4 or IPv6 you just type in
"login.ifi.uio.no", which as you can see is read right to left. So whenever you use DNS you first send a request
to ICANN, which sends it to UNINETT, and so on and so forth...

Now ICANN and a bunch of other organizations have ROOT servers, and as of today there are 13 DNS-es each of which
has a copy of all of the names of DNS servers of these ".com" and ".no" authorities, and also lists whose they are
and such so the chain of lookups can be done. But due to a technique named anycast (servers with exactly the same
IPs, first to respond is the one you connect to) there are 1600+ of these DNS servers. In practice however, your
machine or browser has these IPs stored locally and updates them too. They are also cached by the servers such as
uio.no (when asked, so that less chain lookup is needed and faster response), which is done often if some IP is
used often, like google.com, even though google.com is not uio.no's responsibility. There are 2 ways that we can
get the IPs, check out the pictures for that, but basically the difference between the two is who gets the most
traffic load. Sometimes, the servers may have many domain names, which might be relevant based on language and
generally with what's popular. Sometimes it is necessary because there are multiple servers in different countries
that do the same job. It also works the other way around where a single domain name can map to multiple IPs,
depending on which one is closer or faster to respond which is also often tied to proximity to it (zoning). An
example can be "loing.ifi.uio.no" actually rerouting to one of the 4 that actually exist which are
"sytosin.ifi.uio.no", and same for "adenin.ifi...", "guanin.ifi...", and finally "tymin.ifi...", which is just
an example of the concept.

Note that DNS is often some global server which many devices already know the IP for which is included
automatically (unless browser has the IP you want cached, then that is used instead to make it faster, and
less load too). But what if you want to reach some local device within your LAN whose IP often gets reassigned
by the DHCP? That is what mDNS fixes (multicast DNS). Basically whenever you add ".local" to the end like
"myLanServer.local" and you don't know the IP, what is done first is sending broadcast to all DNS servers only
(which is actually what a multicast is) in your LAN using this "224.0.0.251" IP which all mDNS-es always listen
to (and other devices may too). This multicast essentially asks if they are the "myLanSever.local", and if so then
they reply with their own IP. Note that the ".local" is reserved to specifically only be used in LANs.

P.S. Multiplexing means combining multiple streams into a single channel, like how multiple TCP connections share
the same IP (due to port being different we can have multiple TCP connections) all of which go through the same
home router. Multicasting is sending to all the devices (a specific group), such as in the example above with the
mDNS where we broadcast message only to the devices that listen to 224.0.0.251. For a device to be able to receive
multicasts it must let the network know that it is a part of this multicast, otherwise it isn't getting anything
and such broadcasts targeted to a specific IP (i.e. multicasts) are ignored on a hardware level.