--- Graph Types ---

Simple graph:
A graph that doesn't have any of this: loops,
parallell edges, direction, and weight.

Cycled graph:
A cycle is a walk where we end up back
at one of the nodes visited before.

Connected/Coherent graph:
If there exists a walk that goes through all
of the nodes of the graph, then it is connected.

DAG (G stands for graph):
Directional, acyclic (not cyclic) graph. Note
that all directional trees are DAGs, but not all
DAGs are trees. That is because in a tree each
node can have only one parent node, but in a DAG,
nodes can have many parents.

N-Connected graph:
If we can remove any node from the graph, and it
stays connected, then the graph is 2-connected. If
we can remove any 2 nodes, then it is 3-connected.
This goes on and on.

Spanning tree:
A tree from a graph (meaning that some edges are
removed) where all the nodes of a graph are used.
Note that no new edges can be added, only those
that the graph had can be used to make a tree.



--- Node & Edge Characteristics ---

Parallell edges:
Whenever there is more than one edge between two nodes.

Simple Loops:
Whenever there is an edge that points to itself.

Directional edges:
Whenever an edge is described as a tuple instead of a set.
In those cases an edge like (u, v) where u and v are nodes
describes a connection from u to v, but not vice versa.

Weighted edges:
Whenever an edge has a value which can be described in
a way that I am not familiar with yet, but I assume that
it is for me to choose whatever I feel like it.



--- Other Definitions ---

Connected components:
In a graph, whenever there is a path from one node to
another then both are one and the same component. That
is how we count them at least. I guess this way we can
identify if graph is connected.

Strongly connected components:
Similarly to connected components, strongly connected
components is basically the same but for directional
graphs, it is no longer about the graph being connected,
but that we can go from A to B and back from B to A.
That was an example of a strong component in directed
graphs. So, (a, b) and (b, a) must exist in E, not just
one of those, both have to, to count as a component.

Topological order:
It is a set of all the directional graph's nodes placed
in an order such that there is no case where we got an
edge A -> B in our graph, and there is a {..., B, A, ...}
in our set at. We can only have {..., A, B, ...} in set.
This can be done by a TopSort algorithm or something like
that in O(n) time complexity, and pretty easily to be fair.