Depth-first search:
An algorithm that takes one path at a time. This type of
algorithm always ends up as a tree, whenever it has a choice
of taking either path A or B, it takes A and once it hits
a dead end it backtraces back to that same choice and takes
B next (if it has not visited it before already). It is the
fastest at finding a node, but not the shortest path. Still,
if we are to visit them all, it is still a O(|V|) in time.
Note that |V| is the amount of vertices (nodes).



Breadth-first search:
An algorithm that takes all a look at all the neighbouring
paths first. The path also always ends up as a tree. Whenever
it has a choice A or B it first picks A, then immediately
goes back and picks B, and so on. Only then will it move
further and explore other paths. This one should complete
in O(|V|) which is linear and very nice.



Dijkstra's algorithm:
Same as breadth-first search but it is adjusted to work with
weighted edges and with/without directional graphs. We also
look at all the paths and replace all previously found paths
to node X if a better one was found.

Once we check all the neighbours of node X we no longer come
back to it, but it can still be visited as a neighbouring node
to check if a shorter path to it was found. Once all the paths
to neghbours were found, we choose the shortest one (in hopes
of getting to the destination faster).

Note that once we get to a node X, if there is a node Y that we
already visited (not as a neighbour) then we ignore it and do not
even try to update its weights because if we did visit it before,
then we already did check all its neighbouring paths.

Also, make sure to use queues since they are convenient and
minimize work done. Time complexity is O((|V| + |E|) * log(|V|))
where |V| is the amount of nodes and |E| is the amount of edges.
The time complexity is such because we visit each node and edge
once and do RemoveMin(queue) which is an extra log(|V|).



Bellman-Ford algorithm:
This is an algorithm whose sole purpose is to detect whether
there is a way to go below weight 0 in a graph with negative
weights. If that is the case, then we do not accept the path
as valid (or a graph overall) and therefore raise an eror.

Otherwise, although it is slower than Djikstra's algorithm, it
will still return a proper path/value if there is no error. The
way we find an error is by updating shortest paths for each node
one at a time. So we take all nodes, update shortest paths to
the start node, and do that again for a better one next time.
Since the longest cycle can be |V| - 1 in length, we repeat
this process |V| - 1 times, and if we get an update to any of
the nodes the next run, then we got a negative cycle in a graph.
It was said that it takes O(|V|^3) time complexity to run.



Prims algorithm:
This algorithm is to build a spanning tree for problems such
as "what is the lowest cost tree we can build". So our goal is
to get the total cost as low as possible such that all the nodes
are reached. Here we assume that local optima = global optima.

First choose any start node, then connect the node that is in
the tree with the one that isn't such that the edge that connects
the two is the lowest cost of all the options available. Repeat
this process until all nodes are reached.

Similarly to Djikstra's algorithm, we use queues here because
it is convenient. It is also similar to Djikstra's, but idk.
Time complexity is the same as Djikstra's, O(|E| * log(|V|)).



Kruskal's algorithm:
This algorithm is also made to create spanning trees. However,
it starts by sorting all the edges by weight. Then, it chooses
the shortest edge (node pair) and now adds those two to the set
of all the nodes visited. If there is an edge where only one of
the nodes is not in the set of nodes visited, we still connect
but add just that one node (it is a set, duh). If there is an
edge that connects two nodes both of which are already in a set,
then we simply drop it. As you can see it is also greedy.

This algorithm is described as "more universal" since it can
identify any amount of spanning trees (a forest) in a graph
that is not connected. But we can very easily modify prims
to just repeat itself until all nodes are in a set.



Boruvkas Algorithm:
Also for creating spanning trees. This one is used more to
create a sort of hierarchy and can easily be done in parallel
due to its nature which I will explain now (a good advantage):

First imagine that every node is a tree, then take a tree and
connect it to another tree through a node from one tree to a
node in another one by an edge such that the edge has the
lowest cost possible. We repeat this iteration until no more
connections can be done. Also, note that in an iteration, we
can connect a tree that already connected to another one.
The only thing we care about is the lowest cost here.

Since it at least halves all the nodes in each iteration, but
has to determine the lowest cost for each tree, it takes about
O(|E| * log(|V|)) time to finish.



DFS separation (undirected graph), (my own algorithm):
The reason DFS (Depth first search) is faster is because it is
good at finding separation nodes (nodes that if removed increases
graph's component count). Basically, create two sets and a map. In
the 1st set we will keep track of all the nodes we visited before.
In the 2nd set, all the separator nodes. And in the map we will
keep track of when we took a choice (by visiting node X instead of
node Y). We will keep track of choices by having an unvisited node
as a key, and the node we could visit it from at the time as value.

So if we could visit node X and Y from node Z, and decided to go
with node X, then X is added to the set of visited nodes, Y is
added as a key to a map of unvisited nodes, and Z as Y's value.

Now, by using DFS our main goal is to start at root node, and end
at root node as well by taking only new nodes. As we start we
create a path set where we keep all the new nodes we visit during
our adventure to the root node. Along the way, we keep track of
alternative nodes adding only those we did not visit before or
during our path to the map set. If an alternative node was visited
before, and it is not the node we started this path from, then the
whole path is added to the visited nodes set, and we start anew
from other alternartive paths, with a new path set, etc. Before
that we also remove all the key nodes from the map that we visited
during our path to reduce potential repetition.

If during this process we reach a node we started this path from
(note that we can not go back to the previous node directly), then
the whole path is added to the separator nodes list (including
the node that this path started with). Note that this happens after
we check and add alternative nodes which will add the so far valid
path to the visited nodes list, and the not valid part will start
as a new path set only after that. However, this does not guarantee
that the whole path is invalid, just that at least one node is, so
if there are any altenrative paths we could take during a part of
the "invalid" path, then we start with that part (the part where
we got to the alternative node, and not the part of the path past
it), and if that alternative reaches the visited nodes or the root
(without reaching path's start node), then all of it is back at
being valid and the alternative path nodes aswell.

Overall, the algorithm is in O(|V| + |E|) time complexity
because we must check each node and each vertex path that we
can take just once without any extra logic. Memory vise it is
also in O(|V| + |E|) because we basically keep track of 4 sets
of all the nodes and paths we can take. It is actually in
O(2|V| + |E|) to be more precise + a temporary path set.



Kosaraju - DFS strongly coherent components (directed graph):
strongly coherent components are defined as follows, if you have
a graph G made up of vertices V and edges E, then a strongly
coherent component U is a path U of a graph G consisting of the
maximum amount of vertices such that from any vertice v in U
we can reach any other vertice u in U through edges E.

The algorithm to find these strongly coherent component paths U
is quite simple actually. First use DFS (depth first search) to
find which nodes can reach which nodes and store it in a map of
sets. Next, reverse the graph and do the exact same thing again.
Now for each vertice (node) which was supposed to be saved as key
find an intersection between both sets. That intersection result
is the strongly coherent component U, and all the other vertices
that are a part of this result U should end up with the same
result U, which is why I think it is best to do a DFS on a single
vertice first on both graphs, find this U, and simply skip all
the vertices that also got included in U so that we eliminate
redundant repetitions (often by a lot, but not guaranteed).

Also, if we now imagine that each of these components is a node,
we create something called a component graph. Basically we
imagine that each of these paths U is a node instead of a path.
This component graph is also guaranteed to not be a cycle.