Constant: a, b, c, Alice, Bob, Eve
Something that is already set in place and can not change.
It can still be interpreted by a model.

Variable: x, y, z
Unlike constants, it can change during evaluation.
It serves as a place holder for any constant in our domain.

Function: f, g, h
Like mathematical functions where you take in arguments
as inputs, in our case it can be constants or variables,
and then evaluates the inputs and then outputs a result.

Term: t, u, v
A constant, a function, a function of a function, etc.
It must be closed, so no loose variables can be included.
To clarify, it can not contain the relation, and can be made
of any number of constants and functions in any manner.

Predicate: P, Q, R
A special type of function that evaluates to a boolean.
Kind of like a statement evaluation "Is x human -> ⊤, ⊥".

Relation: R, S, T
Same as predicate but the arity is always 2 or more.

Atomic-Formula: φ, ψ, θ
A single relation that is made out of only terms.

Formula, Compound Formula: F, G, H
A bunch of atomic-formulas clumped together. There is
no difference between a formula and compount formula.
The only possible difference is that by a "formula"
one may mean atomic-formulas or compound formulas based
on context, or both of them.



Note that the logical connectives are the same in first-order logic
as well. It basically extends predicate logic.



Quantifier: Binds variable next to it to the logic next to it
1. Universal Quantifier: ∀
For all {x} it is such that ... is true
2. Existential Quantifier: ∃
There exists an {x} such that ... is true

Whenver variables in formulas are introduced, initially
these variables are considered to be free in a formula.
So for example P(x) has x as a free variable.

Whenever substituting x with a direct example only the
free variables can be replaced, bound ones can not.

When a variable is bound by a quantifier and is used in
some formula or part of it, then that part is quantifier's
scope. It is like a placeholder, an invisible or a non-existing
variable. In that part the variable is considered bound.
For example ∀xP(x), here x is bound by ∀ quantifier.

Therefore, substituting the x when it is bound doesn't make
any sense, since it is technically not there to begin with.

So, if that part has all of its variables bound then it is
considered closed under itself. If the whole formula has
no free variables left, then the whole formula is closed.
E.g. there were no real variables to begin with to replace.

But sometimes they can be substituted, though carefully such
that the original statement is preserved. For example, there
∃xP(x). Here, the formula says that there exists x such that
P(x) is true. So we can replace it with a new constant that
actually makes it true. The result doesn't change.

It can also be done to universal quantifiers, but harder.
Take ∀xP(x) for example. Since x can be any term, the formula
says that it is true for all, then we can choose a single
example term t such that P(t) is true. Here, showing that
P(t) doesn't hold is equivalent to proving that ∀xP(x) fails.
So it still has its uses and much can be done.



Substitutions:
Let s and t be terms, and x be a variable.
We can create a substitution s[x/t] where in
all occurances of x in s, x is now t.

Note that the substitution applies only on free variables.
The form s[x/t] is not a convention that is universally
accepted, sometimes s[t/x] is written instead of a s[x/t].




Here is the precedence:
1. Constants
2. Predicates
3. Parantheses
4. Negation
5. Quantifiers
6. Conjunction
7. Disjunction
8. Implication
9. Bicondition / Equivalence