TLDR:
- World today overlooks emotions.
- Emotions and Reason should work together rather than apart.
- Allison Jaggar is an American Feminist (and Philosopher, good one)
- She defines 4 types of emotions (ok, lol)



Definitions:
Scientific Approach - A way in modern society to advancement focused on hypothesis formulation, testing, etc.
Epistemology - Theory of knowledge, its methods, validity and scope.
Positivist Epistemology - Epistemology that favors logic and reason and undermines emotions.
                          Based on (Empirical Evidence, Objectivity and Determinism)
Empirical Evidence - A theory or something that can be tested and verified.
Objectivity - Exclusion of bias.
Determinism - Predictability and of systematic nature.



About Allison Jaggar:
- She is an American Philosopher
- Known for contribution to epistemology and feminist political philosophy
- Wrote an essay "Love and Knowledge: Emotion in Feminist Epistemology"



Part 1: Motivation

Question:
- How do emotions affect our knowledge and its development?
- Should emotions be disregarded during research?

Allison Jaggar Arguments:
- World is full of myths and information that is widely accepted (often without double checking).
  Examples are how misinformation can spread on the internet and propaganda.
  The point: Honestly no idea how that is an argument.
  But, she point out that people find reason and emotions to be different (a myth) and prioritize one over other.

- In the past, emotions were seen as motivation to acquire knowledge. They had to be mastered for effectiveness.
  After 17th century the emotions were seen as deterrents of information due to abstract thinking.
  Emotions now were redefined as "passions" instead.

Conclusion: Embrace emotions.
Jaggar concludes that the past methods were superior. Aka, both are supposed to be at play together.
- Absence of emotions results in different questions and observations.
- Example 1: Fear is tool for perceiving threats, and anger as a signal of wrong doing.
- Example 2: Compassion which draws attention to social inequalities, etc.
- Emotions are also shaped by societal norms (A universal understanding)
- Therefore, it is better to embrace them and reinforce instead (use properly).



My opinion:
I do not believe in that because: Our societal norms are not completely moral and ethical.
She says that there are "Outlaw Emotions" which can find those imperfections,
but that means that they are biologically evolved and that implies that their
purpose was survival not guided by morale and ethics.

Feminism (Not important):
- Jaggar argues that women are seen as emotional, and men rational (misleading).
  Points out how that divides us (not good, for some reason... why should everyone be built equally?)
- Believes that because of it knowledge can be easily accessed by one group, and restrained for other.
  Same applies to understanding of concepts themselves, one better than other at some and vice versa.
  (Honestly, seems like variety is good. Like, I don't need to learn psychology if I want to study physics).
  (Specialist > Generalist for the sake of society. Sometimes Generalist > Specialist if individual, sometimes)



Part 2: Emotions

What are emotions?
People do not yet agree on what emotions are.
So she defines them herself and goes from there.

Defines 4 types of emotions:
  1. Intentional - Not same as feelings, often confused.
  2. Socially Constructed - Emotions that are appropriate for different situations.
  3. Active Nature - Emotions are seen as overwhelming experiences, somewhat controllable.
                     Seen as involuntarily, but are our way to actively participate.
  4. Evaluative - It is our basis for value, individual focus, involves an evaluation of the world.

She mentions the fact that not only do observations affect emotions,
but emotions affect what part of observation we focus on, thus emotions affect themselves.
Since focus on observations is being altered (bias), I conclude that emotions shouldn't be included.



Part 3: Epistemology

Here she also talks about observations (repeats herself)
She also mentions emotions decide what we pay our attention to and focus on.
So our focus is basically partially defined by society.

Mentions the "brilliance" of men and mentions studies to show us that it is a serious stereotype.
