An algorithm is a list of instructions that run on a machine. An automata is a program with a very limited memory,
and a turing machine is one with an unrestricted amout of memory. Automata is used in compilers as translators, and a
turing machine is used in creating programs and evaluating their time complexity.

Note: "if and only if" is often shortened and written as "iff".

The automaton is often represented by a graph for ease of understanding. The nodes are the states in which it can end
up in, the edges connecting these nodes represent the cause of going from one state to the other (directional). The
automaton always has a starting state (node). The automaton must have a halting state which is called the accepting
state so that it can be finite. Everytime one goes from one state to the other, the edge that was used is removed
from the initial input (since the instruction was applied). Imagine automaton being kind of like a filter of what is
and isn't a valid input. Iff the input we parsed in went all the way from the start to the accepting state and is
empty at that point, then the automaton accepts the input as valid. If we can go further and end up to a
non-accepting state also called the "dead" / "sink" state, then the input is not valid. These dead states are
implicit and represent the rest of all the possible states that were not pointed out before.

For a clear example or a clarification / own analysis, check out the "Finite_Automata.png".
Also, I am too lazy so I screenshoted the definition of the DFA (Determenistic Finite Automata).
For that check out "DFA_1.png", and for a formal definition check "DFA_2.png".

We use these automata to define what's called a regular language. Basically, if there exists a finite automata such
that all the language's words are accepted, then the language is also considered a regular language as well.
Similarly we can use operations on these regular languages just like with normal ones, check out
"Regular_Languages.png" for more. For a clear example check out "Regular_Languages_Union_Example.png".