--- Lecture 23.2 ---
The database security is mostly about these (CIA, just like the normal cybersec is):
- Confidentiallity: Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.
- Integrity: Unauthorized or improper modifications to database information.
- Availability: Legitimate user can't access the database.
For a more concrete list of security goals that the database system should uphold check out the "L23.2 - Database
Security Goals.png".

When it comes to authorization SQL adds roles to users which govern how much of the database they can see, and what
parts they can edit. DAC which stands for Discretionary Access Control is basically when we grant certain access
or restrict certain parts per user. MAC which stands for Mandatory Access Control is when we add roles and assign
these roles to multiple users. These roles have their own accesses and restrictions. Note that both DAC and MAC
are used simultaneously and can be combined for both flexibility (DAC) and scalability (MAC) (I believe). Also, we
usually have a "superuser" which is basically an administrator account that has all the privileges and can assign
and create these roles and privileges to other users. More formally we call this superuser a Database Administrator
(DBA). Instead of explaining exactly how these roles and grants work (and how views make it precise), just check out
the screenshots that I've made and what they're called (more like general titles or comments) which explain the
Access Control part.

Oracle is an example of such a DBMS which uses SQL and restricts users and creates roles. Users must log into their
accounts to get access to the database, and these accounts each have their own roles and unique privileges. Most of
it was actually mentioned in the IN2090 which we took.

When it comes to inference control this is when we basically when we use Views in SQL and aggregation so that we
can only get the total, or average, or data like that without knowing each one individually. It's about privacy
and confidentiality such that the information that is being used or shown is not tied to any single or a single
group of relevant users (without consent, with consent it is fine). For an example check out "L23.2 - Inference
Control.png". We also use Views for a fine grained access control as well by the way.

SQL Injection is (or at least was) a common way to inject own SQL queries into the application to bypass
authorization and/or do unauthorized actions. This is something that I did in IN2120 so check that out for more.

