Risk:
An assessment of risk of damage from relevant parts of the system,
mainly those 3: How often the system is getting threatened (threat),
how much value is gotten from getting hacked (value), and how easy
it is to hack the system and get those values out of it (vulnerability).



Risk level - Qualitative:
A quantitative assessment of how big of a trouble we will
have once that part is breached. It is calculated like this:
'Risk = Probability * Consequence' where both probability of
getting attacked and the consequence's seriousness are both
determined in some manner.

However, note that if the scale is logarithmic, e.g. the risk
level is ln(e^X * e^Y), then the result becomes X + Y which is
a sum and not a product like X * Y instead. So like if the
difference in probability level 2 and 3 is like 10 days to a 100
days for example (same scale must be used for coonsequence as well).

Probability is most likely to be determined manually by combining
threat and vulnerability, whilst for consequence it is simply the
loss of value or something similar. Note that if all the risk levels
are huge or minimal, then something is wrong with our model because
we then either have to use more resources than we have to prevent
them, or none at all (which is hella greedy and a very bad take).



Risk level - Quantitative:
Here we calculate the loss of an event happening (which is often
pre-determined by the qualitative risk level) which is often in
logarithmic scale. For the amount of events that happens it is
the same, being pre-determined by the probability risk level.

Note however that both require base case constants like level
5 consequence risk level is 10 million kron lost and such. Same
for the probability where 5 for example can be 1000 risk events
like this in a year (year is often used, same for kron). The
cost can be easily calculated assuming we got the data, but
not the amount of events that may happen in a year.

Note that the total loss even if the scale is logarithmic does
not become a sum, but a product instead because we multiply
the amount of events happening by the cost, it is a cost per
event after all (duh...).



Risk threshold:
An acceptable risk level an organization or an entity can take
before having to use its limited resource pool to reduce the
severity or likelihood of this risk becoming true. This value
is determined based on risk assessment and avaliable resources.



ROS analysis:
An action of analyzing the risk like what causes it, what it affects
how severily it affects stuff, then measuring its level. Later,
create a plan of possible actions that can be taken to reduce it
and evaluate the risk and its level after actions were taken. If
it is not enough (below the acceptable risk threshold) then we
create even more counter-measures to lower it further (more costly).



Threat modelling:
This is an act of trying to imagine different scenarios where the
system might have been breached, what could have been revealed or
tempered with, and how it could have been prevented. You try to
think what the hacker could be interested in, what bad things can
be done with this secret data that we got. You assess risks before
they happen and try to predict, assess and prevent risky breaches.



ROI (Return on investment):
If we spend too much on making sure that the risk does not happen,
then it obviously wasn't worth it. To find out whether we should
or shouldn't do that we calculate the damages that can be done if
that risk happens as 'gain' because we gain money from preventing
it. And get the formula 'ROI = (gain - spent) / spent' where 'spent'
is the money used to prevent that risk from happening. If ROI is
positive, then it was worth it, if negative, then it wasn't.

However, even if it is negative or positive, there are often more
than one of those risks and they might happen multiple times (probably),
consider that. To describe this we also predict based on frequency 'S'
(from risk level) how often it may happen (in a year, etc.) and also
from risk level, how much gained 'V' (prevented losses) in that period.