--- Regulations ---
Risk is whenever something bad can happen in theory or has happened
historically in practice before with similar systems. For example, a
risk of some script kiddie having lots of zombies that execute a
DDOS attack on the company servers to bring the websites down.

We want to protect against those risks in the most resourceful way
possible. There are regulations and standards made for this such as
ISMS or LSIS (Information Security Management Systems) which defines
what a company must implement to ensure CIA of assets from various
attackers and to ensure the transparency between shareholders.

These regulations must be followed because governments legally require
companies to ensure the CIA because sensitive user information must
be protected at all times (it is sensitive and private for a reason).
But this regulation is loose because for example a meteor can hit a
database and destroy the servers, but just like we don't build bunkers
for every "the end of the world", we don't protect servers from meteors.
It is simply not likely to happen, and is not a very wise use of limited
copany resources, resources that can be used against something real.

Note that ISMS is like a framework which is like a bunch of guides
called ISO which tell you what must be defined properly and how it is
supposed to be structured. The risk level, risk threshold, policies and
procedures, etc. are to be assessed manually, more on it in chapter 7.2.

I've also added a regulation hierarchy picture which kind of descrbies
how important something is, because those regulations don't have to be
done, but doing them is highly recommended, it is good practice and is
often good for user trust and marketing. At the top of the hierarchy
are the laws that are mandatory, the rest is not and is less important
the lower down in the hierarchy you go.



--- ISMS Frameworks ---
There are 2 rule series that describe the ISMS for cybersec which are
used globally, first is ISO and second is IEC. There is a 27000 ISO
series such as ISO 27000, 27001, 27002, and many more other ISO and IEC
standards that must be bought (lol, what? Ok...).

In USA it is NIST SP800 series that are used (NIST is free), but there
are also payed ones like SANS Institute and CIS. In Norway, we mostly
use NSM, Digdir, Datatilsynet, sometimes ISO/IEC or NIST aswell.

ISO 27000 is like an overview over what ISMS is and what definitions
are used as well as the introduction on ISO 27001 and ISO 27002. ISO
27001 is about what has to be done to ensure CIA, ISO 27002 is about
how it is supposed to be accomplished. An inspection request must be
made and passed to become ISO 27001/27002 certified. All of this is
about customer & shareholder trust, and a little bit of marketing too.

ISO 27001 consists of 10 chapters, which can be described as PDCA (Plan,
Do, Check, Act) where plans 1-3 are just an introduction (not important),
4-7 are about planning, 8 is about doing, 9 is checking, and 10 is acting.
Note that 9 means to check the quality of what was done, and 10 is about
making it better (thus repeating the cycle back to planning phase).

ISO 27002 is a bank of security measures that should be considered for
an organization and must be implemented if relevant / applicable. SOA
(Statement of Applicability or Relevans Erklaring) is how we determine
if the security measure is relevant in our system or not, and if it is
must be implemented to be ISO 27002 certified. There are slightly less
than 100 measures which are categorized by physical, technological,
employee training, and organization related. Once can also search with
"#" apparently if one is interested in the ones that are about integrity
for example like "#Integritet" or if one wants to take measures in
identifying or responding to vulnerabilities with "Identifisere" and
"Oppdage". There is much, much more, and I am not sure how it works.
But it is probably like a search just like an F3 in notepad.

There is also like a satisfaction scale for like how well are the
regulations and policies implemented in the company workflow and
systems which is like a way to make you look bad / good called CMMI.



--- Cyber Defense Matrix ---
There is this popular cyber security book which says that there are 5
distinct stuff we got to protect and take care of which are often done
in different ways. Those are: Devices, apps, network, data, users. Then
if we go back to ISO regulations, specifically ISO 27002 where we have
to identify protection points, implement protection, set attack
identification system, attack response plan, attack recovery plan, we
can create a matrix where we check if for example devices have those
ISO 27002 regulations implemented, do apps, networks, etc.

In the picture blue squares is what we have already implemented, orange
triangles are what we did not but wish to have done to better the security
system that we have so far. This is like a common practice and is quite
useful to be honest. There is also a governence part in NIST which is
basically the same as ISO 27001. Note that there are many more ISO
documents, not just ISO 27000, ISO 27001, and ISO 27002.

There is also a picture where we can use the same matrix to distribute
employee roles based on what they should do and such, also come in handy.
Also, note that UiO has its own LSIS policy which is free and out there
in the open (it usually isn't) found on their website. Pretty cool.