Whenever we work with turing machines we can also consider some with multiple tapes. The way these work is similar, we have a head on each tape and read all simultaneously: δ(q, a_1, a_2, ...) = (q', b_1, b_2, ..., D_1, D_2, ...).
As you can see we also move all of them simultaneously and write to them too. So in normal turing machine the δ
function is defined as δ : Q × Γ → Q × Γ × {L, R}, but in multi-taped turing machines (MTTM) it is defined as δ :
Q × Γ^n → Q × Γ^n × {L, R}^n where n is the number of tapes we got in out turing machine. I have asked myself what
the benefit of these multi-taped turing machines is, and there is... None! But I guess it may be easier to work
with? So, there is a theorem that states "For each multi-taped turing machine, there is an equivalent single-taped
turing machine". Just like how some DFA always has an NFA equivalent and such.

By the way, whenever we work with turing machines it is assumed that we work with determenistic turing machines.
Otherwise it is always mentioned that it is non-determenistic. Note that non-determenistic here implies that there
is a moment where we have multiple choices to make when transitioning between states, just like NFAs do (and DFAs
that don't), same for accepting which is also done similarly to how NFA does it. Also, a reminder that the language
is turing recognizable if there exists a turing machine which always halts whenever it does accept (not necessarily
when it does not recognize an input though).

Note that since non-determenistic turing machines may have multiple choices to make, we must point that out and as
δ : Q × Γ → Ρ(Q × Γ × {L, R}) where Ρ is the power set of course, e.g. Ρ(A) = {x | x ⊆ A} for some A and x. When
it comes to noting series of configurations, we do it similarly as to how we do it with NFAs, simply branch. Which
we often draw as a tree with start at the root (top), and whenever it halts (accepts/rejects) we show the path and
the leaf node. The paths that lead to no halts are simply denoted using an infinity symbol (or "..." if there is
some pattern that branches infinitely in some pattern I guess).

Lastly we got Enumerators which is a third variant of turing machine we'll learn (MTTM being first, and non-
determenistic being second). Enumerators have no inputs nor any accept/reject states, just normal states and an
empty tape (starts out always empty). It is also connected to a printer, so it can output stuff, and all it does
is just print out its tape. Thus, it is always constant, and its purpose is usually to be created to print out all
of some language's entries, one word at a time. So each tape output is a word in some language it defines.

So basically we got that DTM <-> MTTM <-> NTM <-> E, where DTM stands for determenistic turing machine, MTTM for
multi-taped turing machine, NTM for non-determenistic turing machine, and E for enumerator. As you can see all of
these are equivalent, meaning that all may always generate some language L accepted by some other one of the bunch.