Turing Machine or TM for short can do anything modern computers can. We create algorithms for lots of different
stuff like traversing a graph, and we will be talking about these algorithms. But first, we need a way to input
the graph into the turing machine, and that is usually done exactly how a graph is defined in logic, i.e. by
inputing nodes and edges like "(1, 2, 3, ...), ( (2, 1), (2, 3), ... )". This is just an example, we can replace
numbers with the amount of symbols of "a" for example, but the gist is that anything that is easily understandable
works. However, we often don't do that and instead just write that whatever it is we are describing, its input that
the turing machine can accept is <G> where G is the graph itself in this case, but <G> is the input representation
of the graph G. So the language L = {<G> | G is a graph} is an example of such notation.

Just like with coding, which we often use when inputs are too complex to work with, we also describe algorithms on
a higher level since everything is getting really big and really complex really quickly. Abstraction is key to good
coding and progress. Basically what we do is we just describe what our turing machine's pointer does like "sweep
right until X is found", "if X do Y, else do Z", "Sweep right and replace all X with Y", "Repeat steps X to Y",
etc. All of this is kind of like normal coding and doesn't even always include a pointer, sometimes it is higher
level and that is also fine as long as it is not up for alternative interpretations, understandable, and
implementable. Like with <G>, we might use a comma symbol as separator, but we don't need to include this detail
when describing an algorithm and we can just instead say something like "Cross off each node connected to node 1".

Some problems turing machine may solve, some it may not, the proof of it is done through a surprisingly simple
contradiction. There is a machine called a decider which is basically a turing machine that always halts no matter
what the input is. Deciders accept inputs it recognizes, and rejects all that it doesn't recognize, it never loops
forever. A recognizer is a turing machine that always halts on inputs it accepts, but may not reject all and thus
keep looping forever never halting on the ones that it doesn't recognize. A turing machine can also be neither of
those two classifications, i.e. be in an infinite loop for the ones that it both does and doesn't recognize, but
not necessarily all of the inputs are that way of course, it may still accept and reject, but that depends on which
turing machine it is, i.e. how it works...

A reminder that a DFA and an NFA are both finite, meaning that they eventually always halt. So if we want to
simulate one of these in our turing machine, we always get a decider. As for PDA, it is not necessarily finite,
i.e. it isn't always a decider. That is because PDA may manipulate memory infinitely in a constant loop which may
prevent it from fulfilling the requirements to progress into further states, and thus not make any progress even
with infinite branching. Whilst an NFA always makes progress because as long as an NFA has a finite amount of
states (which both do) one of its branches will reach an accept or a dead state eventually. Even though a PDA also
has both an accept and a dead states and finite amount of states, the loop prevents progress. The same also goes
for recognizers.

Lets say that we got a turing machine M which decides whether some DFA A accepts some input w. This machine M is a
decider, i.e. it will always halt. But what if we want to check if two DFAs A and B accept same language? We can
simulate running machine M on an another turing machine N which takes in two DFAs and runs every input on the
union kleene-star of both domains, i.e. (Σ_A ∪ Σ_B)*, but since the language of either or both L(A) and L(B) can
be infinite, the machine N may never halt (it may not be a decider, nor a recognizer). However, since regular
langauges are closed under complement, union, intersection, and difference, we can construct a DFA C that recognizes
the same language as the symmetric difference between A and B, i.e. L(C) = L((A \ B) ∪ (B \ A)), and if L(C) = Ø,
then it must be the case that L(A) = L(B). This example goes to show that even though some machines like N through
naive brute-forcing methods may never halt, i.e. not decidable, then it doesn't mean that brute-forcing is our only
option, and that sometimes through some clever design we can make a machine N that is decidable, i.e. always halts.
This is also true for undecidability of PDAs since an input w of length n can be recognized by a CFG in CNF
(Chomsky Normal Form) which always uses 2n - 1 rewrite rules (not has, uses), and such a CFG can be translated into
a PDA that always halts, thus all languages can be recognized by a decidable PDA, i.e. a decider.