Next up, turing machines. We know that there are some languages that context-free grammars can not create, i.e. there
isn't a push down automata that can accept it. These are called non-context-free languages or NCFL for short. but
turing machine is able to produce and recognize such languages. These are also sometimes called turing-acceptable languages or TAL for short (I guess).

A turing machine basically has infinite memory (in form of a tape) and a pointer that can move across it reading and
writing to each memory cell it desires at any time. However, it can hold only one memory cell of information after
reading the cell at a time. It is similar to a PDA, but there we had a static pointer. For simplicity, we start with
a pointer at its left edge and say that it is infinite on the right. Just like in PDA and DFA it has states. However,
it always has 2 states named q_A and q_R. When it reaches q_A it accepts the input and halts, when it reaches q_R it
rejects the input and halts. These are meant to be the only halting states. As for the input, it is just a tape with
the input written in it starting from the left edge and nothing more, i.e. the rest is empty.

During a transition between two states, the machine first reads then writes. Just like in a PDA, there is no limit
to the amount of transitions between these two states that there can be. A transition is described as follows:
δ(q, a) = (q', b, D) where q is the initial state, a is the read cell, q' is the state we transition into, b is what
we write to that same cell that we read, and then D where we finally move the pointer either left (L) or right (R).
All of this is considered a single atomic action. While the machine is on we repeat this action starting from the
edge. Only once it reaches either state q_A or q_R it halts.

In drawings the transion between two states is denoted as "a -> b, D" where a is what we read, b is what we write,
and D is the direction, either L for left or R for right. Empty cells are denoted as either "ε" or "⊔". Another note
is that the function L(G) which creates a language may also be written as L ⊆ Σ* where Σ is our alphabet.

A turing machine is formally defined as (Q, Σ, Γ, δ, q_0, q_A, q_R) where Q is a set of all states that the machine
has, Σ is the input alphabet (we do not allow ⊔ there), Γ is the tape alphabet (which always has ⊔, and Σ ⊆ Γ), δ
which is the set of transitions between states Q, q_0 is the start state, q_A is the accept state, and q_R is the
reject state also known as dead state. Note that "L" and "R" function in the δ's alphabet as pointer directions.

Note that just like NFA and PDA we may branch here. Whenever we do it is because we have multiple transitions to
choose from which need the same read value and same state. Such TMs are called NTM (Non-determenistic Turing
Machine), and whenever there is no branching possible in our TM we call those DTM (Determenistic Turing Machine).