--- Smullyan's Categories ---
When working with SATs and Calculi, there are rules that are
often repeating (or I guess so). Anyways, Smullyan has made
categories for those, we will look at Sequent Calculus LK for
convenience. These are then used to describe methods for SAT
algorithms to improve their efficiency and make them faster.

For example, DPLL is an algorithm that uses Simplifications
and Cuts. In addition to that, CDCL also uses Pruning and what's
called Clause Learning.

Category α:
This is a family of rules that simply take a step forward such
as an AND-left and OR-right rules in Sequent Calculus LK. These
don't add new branches, just change form of propositional logic.

Category β:
This is a family of rules that is taking a step forward, such as
category α, but this is also a family that splits into branches.

Category γ:
This is a family of rules that applies to variables. This is also
a family of rules that applies substitution, and to be more precise,
a term substitution, like [x\f(a)] and [y\g(f(z))] type substitution.

Category δ:
This is a more narrow family of rules similar to caregory γ since it
also applies to variables and quantifiers alike. It is also about
substitutions, but those substitutions must introduce new constants
into the mix such as [x\a] and [y\c] as long as both a and c are fresh.



--- Simplification ---
Take for example a sequent p, q ∧ (r → s ∧ p), Γ ⊢ ∆. Since we
already assume p, in the next formula q ∧ (r → s ∧ p) we can
replace p with ⊤ instead in that same formula. This evaluates to
q ∧ (r → s), so we simplified the sequent into p, q ∧ (r → s), Γ ⊢ ∆
which is easier to prove.

This is the simplification method, you look at what's already known
to be ⊤ and/or ⊥, substitute for other formulas, and evaluate to
see if anything has improved, worst case scenario it stays the same.

Another this we can do is instead is to branch, we can compute the two
possible interpretations I instead, so we check for when the literal
is both ⊤ and ⊥. This one is guaranteed to make varying, but progress
none the less. It is literally the same as branching, but promising.

With this we can add four new rules to Sequent Calculus LK for example.
Note that A[B] denotes that in formula A we assume that I ⊨ B. Also,
I made up names for them, I honestly don't know what they are called.

A[B], B, Γ ⊢ ∆       A[¬B], Γ ⊢ B, ∆
-------------- -LL   ---------------- -LR
 A, B, Γ ⊢ ∆           A, Γ ⊢ B, ∆

B, Γ ⊢ A[B], ∆       Γ ⊢ A[¬B], B, ∆
-------------- -RL   ---------------- -RR
 B, Γ ⊢ A, ∆          Γ ⊢ A, B, ∆

If it's easier, L and R are directions, left and right. The first
letter tells on which side A[B] is, and the second one where B is.
Where B is interpreted by I, and A[B] is the formula we use it on.
Note that whenever the second letter is L, I ⊨ B, and R ↔ I ⊨ ¬B.

With this method we can actually avoid branching from time to time.
Like we will probably have to do it at least once, but might not need
to later due to these simplification rules (and the first method).



There is also a way to simplify the Resolution Calculus with this
simple method. In a clause set S we can take any clause C. Now, C
either contains some literal L, or it doesn't. If it does, we can
remove C altogether by assuming C[L]. Since it's valid it doesn't help
us to prove unsatisfiability. However, if C contains ¬L, then by assuming
C[L] we can resolve it on C (itself) and remove ¬L from C (we keep the
rest though). Note that we do not keep the old copy of C (it's redundant).

So whenever we assume C[L] and L is in C it's called unit subsumption,
whenever C[L] contains ¬L and we keep everything except for ¬L in C,
then it's called unit resolution.



--- Cut ---
This is a rule that lets us take a shortcut when proving SATs by
first proving a lemma, and then using it later to shorten the proof.
For example, take A, A → B, B → C ⊢ C. In this example, instead of
applying the arrow left, splitting the branch, and negation rules,
etc. we simply prove A, A → B ⊢ B, and then introduce B as a lemma
in the second branch like B, B → C ⊢ C. I removed A here because
it is no longer useful here, but we usually keep those because we
can't foresee what is and isn't relevant right away.

Here is the full visualization of this in Sequent Calculus LK:
    ... ax          ... ax
-------------   -------------
A, A → B ⊢ B   B, B → C ⊢ C
-----------------------------
    A, A → B, B → C ⊢ C



--- Lemma Generation ---
Similar to cut rule, we can introduce lemmas whenever we refute
a formula too. So in an example with A ∨ B, Γ ⊢ ∆ we can add a
lemma ¬A to the right branch side or ¬B to the left one, so we do

 Γ, A ⊢ ∆   Γ, ¬A, B ⊢ ∆         Γ, A, ¬B ⊢ ∆   Γ, B ⊢ ∆
-------------------------   OR   -------------------------
      Γ, A ∨ B ⊢ ∆                     Γ, A ∨ B ⊢ ∆

This is similar to lemma generation, but instead of proving A
we refute it instead (since it is on the other side now).



--- Pruning ---
With this method we are basically trying to spot contradictions early
on and discard them, like a whole branch in the Sequent Calculus LK.

Like, take A ∨ B, B ∨ C ⊢ A for example. We can see that the second
part doesn't even contain A, so it can never prove it in the first
place, so we can discard it and simplify to A ∨ B ⊢ A. If we are
smart about the ∨-left rule, then we may also spot that B doesn't
contain or isn't A, so we just keep A.

The point is not to prove the validity of A, but to find a satisfying
interpretation. We may spot the falsifiability of a branch early on,
and refute it (if we want just satisfying examples).



--- Clause Learning ---
Just mentioned, not explained unfortunately. What was mentiond is
Stalmarck's Method which is patented, does some merging after the
cut rule. Didn't analyze what makes it faster though.

What I need to know is that CDCL is the refined version of DPLL
which uses that was DPLL used and more, namely pruning and this.