--- Kripke Frame ---
In modal logic, we create what's called a kripke frame which allows us to
interpret modal logic denoted as F = (W, R) where W is a world (a state where
predicates are either considered true or false), and accessibility relation R
where all the elements in R are also in W x W which is like a set of all the
possible combinations that W can have with itself. It basically describes which
worls are connected and accessible from which.

Think of it as F being a graph, W being nodes, and R being edges between those
nodes. Note that R might not have all the edges that can be made, just can (max).



--- Modal Interpretation ---
So to interpret the modal, we have to interpret all the possible states. So we
basically create a set of interpretations. This tuple is denoted as I_M which
is equal to (F, T_I) where F is our kripke frame, and T_I is a set of
interpretations I_w for each world w that is in W which itself is in F.

In those worlds, formulae can be interpreted true or false. So to denote "□p"
being true in some world w_0 for example, we must have it such that all the
worlds that can be reached from w_0 must have p true. If it is just possible
denoted as "◇p" being true in some world like w_0, then there must be at least
one world where p is true, not necessarily all of them.

This is kind of like □ being a universal quantifier, and ◇ being an existential
one where worlds are just concrete examples with different interpretations. The
relations, e.g. the connections between worlds are seen differently depending
on concrete modal logic type. For example, let's say that we flip a coin, the
result could be tails or heads, so we create two worlds where one is tails and
the other came heads.

So let's say that ◇H means that it is possible that the coin flip came up heads.
We then create a world w_0 where ◇H is true. Now, once we actually flip a coin,
we get two world, w_1 and w_2. In w_1 we got tails, so H is interpreted false,
in w_2 we got heads, so H is interpreted true. So we get connections, two edges,
one from w_0 to w_1, and one from w_0 to w_2.

This was an example of an epistemic logic, there is also temporal where edges
denote states in time, and not possible situations so ◇ would mean eventually
instead of possibly. There is also deontic is like promises and obying them/not,
and there is much more like provability logic and general necessity/possibility.



--- Forcing Relation ---
Forcing relation denoted as "⊩" which means that if in our interpretation I,
of Kripke Frame F, of a world w that is in F, the interpretation (I_w) of some
formula A returns true, then w ⊩ A read as "w forces A" (or at least I read it
this way). In other words, if I_w(p) = T, then w ⊩ p.

For negation, if I_w(p) = F, then w ⊩ -p. for conjunction and disjunction, if
w ⊩ A and w ⊩ B, then w ⊩ A ∧ B, and if w ⊩ A or w ⊩ B, then w ⊩ A ∨ B.
Similarly for implication and such.

Note that if v ⊩ A for some v in W with (w, v) in R, then w ⊩ ◇A. In other
words, if there exists a v that forces A, v can be reached from w, then there
exists a v that forces A from w (which is what w ⊩ ◇A means). Similarly,
w ⊩ □A if for all (w, v) in R, v ⊩ A and v is in W (and w is too). So all
the worlds v reachable from w because □A must work for all of them and ◇A
for at least one.