--- Lecture 11.2 ---
Parsing is basically what I did when I was studying Maude System where we create an object pattern and tell how
it is built and such. It is surprisingly similar, so just go ahead and get a quick reminder on it from back then.
The only difference is that we do not tell it how to process anything or how to behave, the equations are part of
the optimization in SQL which is when it comes in. Parsing is just the definitions part and how it is structured
or can be divided into part (i.e. syntax validation and categorization of parts). Also, check out the screenshot
on how it looks if you are interested: "L11 - Parsing.png".

Compilation is basically using the parsed definitions and the definitions of RA and matches them the best it can,
usually parsing is done to make it intuitive, and the syntax isn't too far off from any of it. So this is often
a straightforward process. Both parsing and compilation are. However, note parsing is a tree like structure, and
so is compilation from it to RA in SQL. And it looks similar but also different? Idk, just check out the screenshot
"L11 - Parsing to Compilation Trees.png".

Compilation gets less straightforward once we are working with sub-queries, which are queries within queries in
sections like FROM of WHERE in SQL. So like SELECT X FROM (SELECT Y ...) ... kind of situations. But still, by
looking at it I think I can do it and I believe it won't even be that hard for me. P.S. We will be asked to compile
a query (i.e. translate SQL query into an equivalent one in RA).

So, sub-queries in FROM sections are manageable, not always straightforward, but often easy to handle still.
However, sub-queries in the WHERE sections are often more complicated and "hard". However, like I mentioned before,
I feel like it shouldn't be too hard for me.

--- Lecture 12.1 ---
When it comes to translation, here are some common patterns. Whenever we are using IN() in SQL, like attribute x
from table A in table B, it is basically the same as doing a left-semi-join of form A ⋉ π_(B.x -> A.x)(B) where
the attribute x from table B is what we are using to compare with attribute x from table A (by renaming it).
Left-anti-join is translated as NOT IN(). And those were the cases for non-correlated subqueries, i.e. where the
two queries are not related by a foreign key or other types of references directly (I think).

Anyways, I just got that far where I got into the correlated subqueries, and boy it is just the normal stuff,
didn't see anything hard or even weird/surprising at the first glance. But since I must remind myself, check out
the screenshot "L12 - Correlated Subqueries Example.png". Basically what we often do is we mention one of the
outside tables repetitively inside the subquery, and sometimes the other way around (tables inside subqueries get
outside). That goes for selections, joins, projections, etc.