--- Routing Tables & Optimization vs Fairness ---
Routers on a CAN network scale or below usually got a tree like topology, a hierarchy or routers. But with MANs and
higher the topology changes to more of a partial mesh topology. In LANs and CANs default gateways were used more
often than the routing tables (both are essential for routers to work), but with change in topology routing tables
become more frequently used than the other. These tables are basically a map of Destination IP -> MAC Address which
is basically what decides the next hop. If an entry is not in such a table then default gateway is still used.

Routing tables basically are there to simplify and make the forwarding faster. However, a common clash between the
two interests is fairness vs optimization here, because by adding fairness we reduce the speed at which the network
operates (not necessarily a single router though). That is because if a packet A has to go through multiple
routers, and some other packet B only through one router, then packet A uses more of the network's resources than
packet B to get to its destination (cuz packet A uses more routers than B). So the goal here is often fairness and
a way to minimize the total number of hops done, which is where the graph theory and routing tables come in.



--- Routing Algorithm Classes & Cost ---
While we are on the topic, a funny routing algorithm is called Hot Potato Routing which all it does is once it gets
a packet to forward it simply chooses some random router and basically tries to get rid of it as quickly as it can.
The reason why it works is because other routers don't have this algorithm and they will be the ones to figure out
where the packet should go to.

Anyways, there are two classes of routing algorithms, Adaptive & Non-Adaptive. Non-Adaptive don't consider the
total load of the network and thus don't optimize and adapt its routing tables for it. This means that if some
packets from some device A were decided by the router A to be forwarded to router B, then even if router B is
fully loaded B is the router it will forward to even if there is a router C that is not fully loaded. This also
requires the precise knowledge of the whole network's topology to utilize these class of algorithms more
efficiently. If the topology is unknown then Flooding (forwarding to all) is the way to go. Adaptive however does
consider the whole network, it estimates its topology and traffic volume for efficiency.

How do we measure which path is better than the other? For that we introduce a cost which is summed up at each hop.
The cost can be the number of hops itself, it may be geopraphical distance, bandwidth, delay in queues, etc. It
may even be some complicated formula such as the relation to geographical distance, bandwidth & queue delay.



-- Routing Algorithms Themselves ---
Non-Adaptive Algoritmhs:
1. Sink Tree - Is an algorithm where each edge has the same cost. The total path is measured in the number of
   routers (therefore the same cost). The way each routing table is filled is we first choose some central router
   A, and starting from it each neighbour that can reach A gets A added to their routing table with cost 1 (cuz
   neighbour). Routers that have connection to some A's neighbour B but not A itself add router B and cost of path
   from B to A + 1 to their routing table. Each router's table measures the cost to reach A and who to forward to
   in order to do so. To reach for example router B from some other router C, one could use A if B is along the
   path to A from C, but otherwise we are removing some shortcuts and force all paths to go through A. This is
   fine if that is truly the case for all, but that is basically exactly what default gateway does... Unless we
   decide to have multiple of such sink trees over the same network for multiple popular destinations or sources.

2. Dijkstra's Shortest Path Routing - This is an algorithm we know from IN2010. Here each router finds out the
   shortest path from it to any other node in the network and the cost function can be anything that you decide.
   For an explanation on how Dijkstra's algorithm works check out IN2010 notes, Wikipedia, or lecture recordings.

Adaptive Algoritmhs:
1. Link State Routing - Is where each IS does the following: It measures the delay between all the ISes it is
   directly connected to, and then uses Flooding to send all the information it acquired (and all that it got from
   others too) to all these ISes. This is done right away by the newly connected ISes as well as by the old ISes
   too in order to update the delay values (cuz they change). Once these routers receive an update they of course
   update their tables and forward this update to the rest that it itself is conncted to, if nothing changes in
   its routing table then it still forwards it. The delay can be the bandwidth or bandwidth + latency, this
   depends on what we want to measure and thus whether the "Hello" message gets to "sneak itself" into the queue's
   highest priority section (or perhaps a dedicated buffer for this type of stuff instead). Note that the updates
   by the old ISes isn't always done and might just be updated only by the new ISes (because of mass Flooding...).
   Once the IS shutsdown the only way to know if it is gone by the other routers is by looking at how old the
   information it got from it is in the Age section that they include when they share their ISes. If Age gets
   too small the router forgets it as a connection unless that router sends it a "Hello" or something like that.
   Note that multiple versions of routing table updates can cascade over the network where Age usually helps.
   Once the flooded information gets back to the router which it knows it already has seen it simply discards it
   and doesn't forward it either. Also all of this was just to get the map of the network and the costs between
   ISes, after that routers usually use Dijkstra's Shortest Path Routing to update their tables.

2. Distance Vector Routing - Here the routers also have a routing table with all the other routers it knows
   about as well as the estimated distance (our cost) and which neighbouring router to forward the packets to
   in order to reach that destination router. Note that the distance is not a geographical one, but usually the
   number of hops (but can also be the bandwidth and delay or a combination of all of these). It is essentially
   the same as Link State Routing, but the only difference is how the information gathering & sharing is done.
   So here the routers share their entire routing tables with their neighbours only (which may cascade I believe).
   It doesn't mean that it knows the exact topology, it only knows the values of who is the better candidate. The
   routers themselves also do measurements with just their neighbours just like in the Link State Routing, but
   the routing info shared doesn't get flooded. It gets shared once and isn't forwarded (but again, may cascade).
   By the way it compares the table data shared with its own to see which entries are better via Bellman-Ford.

Note that Link State Routing is a general algorithm, there are actually 2 protocols that do it slightly
differently and those are IS-IS (Intermediate System-Intermediate System) and OSPF (Open Shortest Path First). I
am not told exactly how they are different and how they work, so that's that. Same goes for Distance Vector Routing
which has a protocol RIP (Routing Information Protocol), and maybe also EIGRP (idk what it is nor stands for). I
am also not told which is used more often or when as well as how they work either.