Soundness theorem is a bunch of proofs about the soundness of a
system. For Sequent Calculus LK there are 3 proofs on the matter.

1. Preservation of falsifiability:
The first one is Preservation of Falsifiability. We know that the system
has rules such as left negation, etc. And we have to make sure that if we
start with a falsifiable sequent, then we end with it as well. Otherwise
that would make the system unsound since there would then be falsifiable
sequents at first that we would then prove to be valid which is just wrong.

To prove that the rule is preserving falsifiablity (upwards) we use rule's
definition and interpret the situation. First assume that an interpretation
I validates all assumptions such as Γ denoted as I ⊨ Γ, and falsifies all
conclusions such as ∆ denoted as I ⊭ ∆. This includes assumptions such as
A, B, etc. and conclusions such as C, D, etc. not just Γ and ∆. Next we use
this interpretation and rule definition to show what the formula should be
like upwards, for example lets take a negation right rule.

Say we have Γ ⊢ ∆, ¬A. Now we say that I ⊨ Γ and that I ⊭ ∆, ¬A. Since I
does not satisfy ¬A per definition of ¬, I ⊨ A. Thus, the next rule upwards
due to I ⊨ Γ, A and I ⊭ ∆ goes from Γ ⊢ ∆, ¬A to Γ, A ⊢ ∆. Whenever there
are multiple cases, we split into branches such as with implication left rule.

2. Falsifiable root sequent has a falsifiable leaf sequent:
This is one of the keys to the soundness of the Sequent Calculus LK. We want
to know that if we start with a falsifiable sequent, we end with a leaf that
has one as well (same reason as in first rule). However, to prove this we
need to show that it holds for the base case first, and then for induction.

Base case is simple. Say we got a sequent Γ ⊢ ∆. Assume that an interpretation
I ⊭ Γ ⊢ ∆. Since Γ ⊢ ∆ is the root and end sequent, the case holds fine. Now,
for induction step, we make use of the Preservation of Falsifiability. Assume
that there is an interpretation I that falsifies a sequent, since I falsifies
a sequent, and the falsifiability is preserved, the is bound to be a leaf node
that is also falsifiable as long as all rules preserve such condition (they must).

3. All axiomed branches validate root sequent
This one is self explanatory. Since the second theorem states that a falsifiable
root sequent must have a falsifiable leaf sequent, this means that if there is
one, then it can't be that all the branches are closed by an axiom from the start.



Completeness theorem is a proof that in the system (Sequent Calculus LK)
if Γ ⊢ ∆ is valid, it can be proven (make a tree with all branches closed):

First we assume that Γ ⊢ ∆ is not provable. Then we create a derivation D of
Γ ⊢ ∆ where no more rules can be applied. Since it is not provable there is at
least one branch B that is not closed. Let us now call the formulae in ∆ that are
in a non-closed branch as B^⊥ and Γ in B^⊤. Those that are in all the other branches
are in B^⊤ or B^⊥ also based on whether they are in Γ or ∆ part of the proof. Now
lets say that we got an interpretation I_B that makes all the formulae in B^⊤ true,
and those in B^⊥ false.

Now we show the base case of our induction proof. Let's choose A, it is
thus in either B^⊤ or B^⊥. If A is in B^⊤ then I_B holds since that is
how I_B is defined, so I_B = A. If A is in B^⊥ then by definition A does
not hold for I_B which means that I_B ⊭ A. Since A was arbitrarily chosen
from derivation D, base completeness step is done.

For the induction step we now must show for each left and right rules in
calculus LK that the same properties hold, e.g. that once all rules are
applied we (and they are eventually), then we can create I_B that shows
us how exactly it can be falsified. So I_B can show everything that can
be falsified based on those rules from a proof, and therefore we can show
everything that is valid. Since we can differentiate precisely about what
is valid and not based on a proof, we can say that what is valid can be proved.
Therefore, Sequent Calculus LK is complete.