Pumping Lemma is used to check which languages are not regular languages, as in it is impossible to create a DFA or
an NFA or a GNFA such that the restrictions are obeyed. For example, it is impossible to create a regular language
having an equal amount of 0's and 1's in a word, and thus there can't exist a DFA or its equivalent that recognizes
that word (same for the other way around).



Pumping Lemma goes like this: Let M be a DFA with p amount of non-dead states. If we have a regular language A which
is accepted by M, and the word w in A has more letters (total word length is n) than there are states p in M, then M
must have loops, e.g. edges that go to the states already visited before. When we visit the state we already visited before this is called a Pigeonhole Principle. Anyways, with this we can conlude that A must have infinite possible
variations of similar words like 010, 0110, 01110, 011110, ...

Formally this is defined as: If there is w in A, and the DFA M's non-dead state count is less than there are words in
w (and that M accepts w), then we can split the word w into 3 parts, x, y, and z, as in w = xyz (a concatenation of
x, y, and z). Once that is done, we can guarantee the following to be true in A (e.g. that words with these
properties are also accepted by M and are part of A):
1. x(y^i)z is in A for every i >= 0. So, if for example x=01, y=1, z=10, then 0110 is equivalent to xy^0z, 01110 is
   xy^1z, 011110 is xy^2z, and so on...
2. |y| > 0, e.g. the looping part can not consist of only empty strings. Otherwise we wouldn't have known about it.
3. |xy| <= p, which means that the loop pattern (and the start of the word) can not be longer than there are the
   amount of states (denoted as p) in A.

Basically, x is the "before loop" part, like 01 from 011110 example, y is the "loop" part like 11 from the same
011110 example, and z is the "post loop" part like 10 from the exact same 011110 example.

Anyways, all of this is useful for when we want to show that something can not become a regular langauge by showing
that all of these 3 points can not be valid at the same time. However, this method is reduntant for when the longest
word w in A's length is shorter than or has an equal length to the DFA M which accepts it. Because duh...



Important note: Pumping Lemma is not an "if and only if" statement. Pumping Lemma (abbreviated to PL) is only useful
for creating contradictions, it itself can not prove something, only disprove it. So we have to construct our own
smart cases and pick smart words that are most likely to successfully create a contradiction.

Anyways, to let's sum up with the practical use of all of this. Let's say you want to create a Regex that accepts
some certain pattern, but of course you are struggling. To not waste your time further you decide to prove that it
is impossible to create such a Regex. That or if you want to prove your superiority or that what the management asks
of you is logically impossible.