--- Belief ---
Intuitionistic Logic is about believing in constructive proofs. This means that if
we are able to prove (A or -A) being valid, then we must be able to prove that either
(A) or (-A) themselves are valid. In this belief we reject the idea of existence of
some value N for with some unique property for example if it can not be constructed.
So we reject the idea that (A OR -A) is valid if we can't prove (A) or (-A).

Here is an example: Does there exist x^y = z such that both x and y are both
irrational numbers, and z is rational? Here is the formal proof: Let x and y be
sqrt(2), then z becomes sqrt(2)^sqrt(2). Now, z is either rational or irrational,
if z is rational, then we've proven that there exist x and y such that z is
rational. However, if z, which is sqrt(2)^sqrt(2), is not rational, then let x
now be sqrt(2)^sqrt(2). Now, z becomes (sqrt(2)^sqrt(2))^sqrt(2) = sqrt(2)^2 = 2,
so z is now rational.

As you can see, this can be translated into either sqrt(2)^sqrt(2) being rational
makes the proof valid, or sqrt(2)^sqrt(2) being irrational makes it valid, e.g.
(A OR -A). But, we couldn't prove either (A) nor (-A). So, we don't know if
sqrt(2)^sqrt(2) is rational or irrational. which means that one of those cases is
not a valid proof, but a combination of these two proofs proves that x^y = z where
x and y are irrational and z is rational exists.

This is something we refuse to accept as a valid proof because neither of those
two case proofs are proven to be valid or invalid. At least one of these two proof
cases should be proven to be valid or invalid, and it should be per definition. In
our case, it can't be that in some cases A is True or -A is True, it must be either
one of those two. We don't want to use invalid logic in our proofs.



--- Final Comments ---
Although I do understand the logic behind it, I still find it to be perfectly fine.
Yes, we are using something that is possibly wrong, and we know for a fact that at
least one of those two is. But, we also know that it doesn't matter which one, this
is not our goal, our goal was to prove (A OR -A), and not either A or -A.

Unless we can encounter contradictions using (A OR -A) in logic, we should stay
confident and work with it. Either until this contradiction is discovered, until
a detail was missed, or a mistake in our way of thinking is pointed out to us.

It sounds strange that we can't prove A nor -A and be able to prove (A OR -A) at
the same time, but to me it isn't counter intuitive or weird, it is brilliant. I
wonder, if something similar can be true for our world? Are there mysteries we will
never be able to find out, only their aftermath perhaps? Fabulous, truly...

Although intuitionistic logicians would simply withold their judgment, they don't
jump to conclusions. To me, it just seems that either (A OR -A) is fruitless or
encouraging. It might not give proper examples, but it might be able to prove that
something is possible, like the proof I showed earlier, and it should be, right?

As ChatGPT describes it: "Intuitionism is about proof, classicism is about truth".
"Intuitionism prevents proofs that couldn't be in the first place". To them, (A OR
NOT A) is meaningless until either (A) or (-A) is proven, until then A has no truth.
So A is neither true nor false, it simply doesn't exist until proven otherwise.