Just like there are languages that can not be described by a DFA, an NFA, a Regex, and a GNFA, there are languages
that can not be recognized by a PDA (PushDown Automata), i.e. the one that can not be described by a CFG (Context
Free Grammar). These are called Non-Context-Free Languages or NCFL for short. And just like before we will be using
Pumping Lemma (PL) to show that.

With CFLs, the pumping lemma is slightly larger and it goes as follows: If we have a CFL "A" then we also have a
pumping length "p" which can divide any word "w" into 5 parts where w = uvxyz (a concatenation of these) such that
all these 3 statements about this word must be true for the language A to accept a word w:
1. u(v^i)x(y^i)z is a word in A for all integers i >= 0.
2. |vy| > 0, i.e. the length of the concatenation of v and y is more than 0.
3. |vxy| <= p, i.e. the length of the concatenation of v, x, and y is less than or equal to the pumping length p.

Just like with the pumping lemma for RL (Regular Languages), we first define a language that we construct through
set theory. Then we construct a word using same operators, and prove that these words can not be accepted by any DFA
for RLs (or PDA for CFLs). Note, we pick the word that is in the language A, we just prove that the language A isn't
regular/context-free. We do this by pointing to dissatisfaction of some of the pumping lemma statements, these must
always hold which creates a contradiction. Remember, failure to prove the contradiction doesn't mean that the
language is regular/context-free, because it can also mean that we just aren't smart enough to construct one.

Lastly, check out the two screenshots, one for whether the set theory operators are closed on CFGs: "CFG
Closure.png", and the Chomsky-Hierarchy of the languages we've seen (and haven't yet) so far: "Chomsky
Hierarchy.png".

P.S. I did not really understand the proof of why PL works and is the way it is for CFLs, and I am not sure if I have
looked at the proof of why PL works and is the way it is for the RLs either, so I would revisit it all to be honest.