--- HDD ---
HDD - Hard Drive Disk, is a round flat spinning chunk of some sort of metal which gives it magnetic properties.
There are multiple disks like that inside an HDD. There are disk heads which are mechanical arms that write the
data on these disks, sometimes just the top/bottom, sometimes on both sides. Depending on precision, the size of
disk, whether both sides are being written to and read from, and the amount of these disks inside the HDD, we can
calculate the HDD's potential capacity. HDD is cheaper and can store data for longer than an SSD, but it is like
10 times slower, so loading data from it to RAM will take much longer. Not all of disks's memory can be used, some
of it is reserved for error correction.

When reading data, we have 3 things the HDD must do to complete it. 1. Move the disk head to the desired track
(the radius from the center of the disk). 2. Wait until the block of data we want to read rotates to the disk head.
3. Start reading the block until we are done (capped by disk rotation speed or by disk head reading speed). The
time it takes to move the disk head can be calculated by this formula: A + B * sqrt(C) where A is some constant
amount of time it takes for the operation to start, B is also a constant which is the speed at which the disk head
can rotate to the right position, and C is the number of tracks it has to go through. (not all radiuses on a disk
are suitable to store data, and the spacing between them is weird but couldn't be otherwise I assume). When waiting
for disk to spin until the start of the block of data we want to read, we can't really know how long it will take,
but the average is about a half of the whole disk (in revolutions, so it depends on RPM). Lastly, the time it takes
to read after the start is: A * B / C where A is the amount of data to read, B is the RPM, and C is the amount of
data per track.

You can check out "HDD Memory Read.png" if you wonder how reading from a disk looks like. When it comes to writing,
it is similar to reading, but we do one additional rotation to read what was written to double check if everything
that was written is correct.

After second lecture on disks, apparently they got their own cache (or buffer, idk what is the difference). So when
you tell it to read block X from track Y, it doesn't read just block X, it reads the whole track Y just because it
can (and because these data can be used in the future) and sends the results into the buffer where the OS picks
only what is needed, i.e. the block X. Also, just like I suspected, the rotation is slower at the center and the
amount of data that can be stored there isn't the same per block, so to get it the same size we need to have
dynamic block splitting (split it up into grids that are more or less the same size). The rotation speed also
means the speed at which we read data is slower the closer to the center we are. This is also why C-SCAN is the
faster algorithm.

When choosing where to save data on disk, we can choose to minimize reading/writing time in some cases. Like
spacing blocks of same files evenly throought the disk to minimize disk arm movement when reading multiple files,
or no spacing (i.e. continuous) to minimize disk arm movement when reading a single file. But I honestly do not
understand these because we read the whole track anyways, just go with continuous one. Last is the one that
actually solves something, which is writing data where it is most likely to be read anyways and put into a buffer.
It is called an Organ-Pipe, and since disk head accelerates, we multiply the distribution with a logarithmic
function.

--- OS and Disks ---
When it comes to reading from disk, be it SSD or an HDD or anything similar to that, the time to fetch data from
them is not very accurate, and by no means should this process be canceled while it is still in process of reading
data, that is because mechanical stuff can and will go wrong (or so I am told).

Also, note that when we are doing disk scheduling (scheduling what data we want from the disk), the seeking time
and reading/writing time and such can be optimized, like if some tracks are close to the current disk head
position, or some rotation is favoring some block right now. This of course means less response time on average,
such is the tradeoff when doing this sort of stuff (like with a CPU).

Just like with OS's CPU Scheduling, we got OS's Disk Scheduling algorithms. However, these vary more depending on
what disk type you use and what your goals are. The main, traditional algorithms are:
1. FCFS - First Come First Serve: A basic queue which prioritizes those of higher importance (necessary by
  default). Basically it prioritizes responsiveness over optimal solutions (unlike SSTF).
2. SSTF - Shortest Seek Time First: Responsiveness is for losers, we use this one to optimize seek time of course.
  Just kidding I am a responsiveness enjoyer, but of course it all depends on the system we are developing.
3. Scan (it has lots of variations): Its goal is basically that both response time and optimization is important,
  so it is basically compromising on both to some degree (which is why so many variations). We are looking at a
  specific variation of it called "elevator", check out the screenshot "Scan Elevator.png". Basically, it picks a
  side to go to, and while it is going to that point it reads all the data that it should also read (which are
  pointed out in the query). Once it read the one it wanted to the first time, it then goes to the next point and
  repeats the process (could be same side, could be opposite side, depends on where the next data block point is).
  There is also a "C-Scan", which is basically when we choose a side (does not depend on the data block point, we
  don't choose any) and start reading everything along the way while we go to the end of that side. Once we are at
  the end of the side, we go al the way back to the other side (not reading anything in the meantime), and start
  reading from the same direction (C stands for circular, and that is what we are doing here). It is "quite fast
  and fair". The reason why has something with the disk head acceleration of an HDD to do (from the formula I had
  mentioned before). Go check out a screenshot on that if you are a math nerd "Scan vs C-Scan.png".
4. Look (it too has lots of variations): All I know about that is that C-Look (a variation of Look) is similar to
  C-Scan (a variation of Scan), the difference being that we do read the data on our way back from one edge to
  other. There are more than just these, but these are the traditional, more common ones I guess...

When it comes to linux, what is being used right now is NOOP, Deadline I/O, and Completely Fair Queueing (CFQ).
to be honest, just google about em or ask an AI for more. I am too tired for that right now. When it comes to
Windows it is FCFS, I/O Prioritizing (not deadline like in Linux), and actually a bunch more which are decided
dynamically based on what the application needs to do.

When it comes to getting the cache from the buffer, Linux does it straightforward: Check buffer (process has direct
access to it), if not there request the data to be loaded in and get em. For windows, check out the screenshot
called "Windows Buffer Caching.png" for details and just read it. The way buffer cache is structured though is it's
a double linked list with front and end pointers where the start is the least recently used data, and the rear is
the most recently used one. So the newly cached memory is at the rear, and the oldest one at the start. Once we get
the new data its pointer is moved to the start, same when a cache hit happens, and the rear one is updated
accordingly. To make searches faster though, we also have a hashvalue-address table (hash of a file name is used as
a hashed value) where the address points to where the data of that file is located in the cache.

By this point we know that blocks contain data on files, and that files can consist of multiple blocks. To get the
right blocks when reading a file, we can either chain them, meaning that each block has a pointer to next block of
the file's data (bad idea), or have a file-address map where the address points to a yet another address (the first
block of that file) in a yet another map (but this time a dense table). That yet another address is the address to
where the first block is. Oh, and I forgot to mention that this yet another address also has a second value stored
which is a pointer to the next block (like a linked list). So it is similar to chaining, but since it is in a map
it is much faster cuz we don't need to read the current block to get to the next one. There is also an option to
split it up into several arrays instead of a single table, where the next pointer has index of current one plus
one. Alternatively, if we can put the file blocks next to each other, then having a pointer to first and the number
of blocks the file has on disk would be sufficient enough, small in size, and equally fast. But obviously I would
rather not depend on that kind of thing, and the other solutions are just more complicated, but equally fast.

The problem with blocks is the same as with pages though (as you can imagine). So the data that is saved in blocks
might not be file data (if a file is larger than a block, the pointers must be saved there too, not everything
about all blocks is in cache). If file is modest in size, then a single block full of pointers to blocks that
contain file data is enough (called "Single indirect"). If a file needs more, then we got "Double indirect" which
is a block of pointers where each pointer points to a "Single indirect" block of that file. This continues up to
"Triple indirect".

Lastly I want to point out that we categorize between 3 types of storages:
1. DAS - The application gets the data from the file system in your PC which stores data on your PC too.
2. NAS - The application downloads (UDP / TCP) data over network from a server which has the file system and data.
   Kind of like watching a video from YouTube, it is being streamed online.
3. SAN - The application gets remote controll of the file system, whenever a request is made the request is
   processed and is sent over network as a direct command to the storage over cloud, kind of like OneDrive in
   Windows.

--- Multiple Disks ---
If we have a streaming server or something like that, we want to send the data as fast as we can to all the
clients. The problem is that one disk (even if it is a superb one) can't handle 10 clients simultaneously. Even in
this small scale scenario it will struggle substantially and slow everything down heavily (a bottleneck). So, to
fix this we get more disks and split up the file's blocks equally between them. This method is called striping, so
when we get the data we get it X times as fast (X is the number of disks it was divided between). The only drawback
is that the whole process is bottlenecked by the slowest of the disks during file's data retrieval. This can be the
case even for the faster disks just because of how the scheduling was done, but that is only if we have a different
striping method, like one where data is divided between less than all and more than just one disk.

Eventually the scaling doesn't apply anymore. That is because of striping (dividing blocks accross disks) making
block seeking optimizations less efficient, so it is more of a O(n * log(n)) scaling degradation. To solve this we
can divide the striping into groups where each client is assigned a group based on certain factors. In the video
streaming service we can for example divide groups by the video's time frame where each frame can be like 1 minute
for example. I.e. the video's files are split into 1 minute time frames and each time frame is assigned its own
group (i.e. some amount of disks per time frame). Then based on where the client is during the video streaming we
assign it a group to get data from. Note that we split it up this way and not by the user count for example to
avoid duplicate information storage on our disks. By the way, this method is called interleaving or compound
striping. Interleaving has a weakness which is that not all disks are being at work at the same time, so if you
split it up poorly you will be left with only a fraction of disks being used all of which do just stripping (worst
of both options). So interleaving doesn't solve the core problem, it just helps us to manage it. But if we can
instead divide groups such that the clients must switch between all and often (optimally), then we got ourselves
the best of both.

Finally we got RAID - Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks. It is basically for when a disk fails to fetch data,
and we don't want the whole process of other disks during interleaving to go to waste, so we do error correction.
This is also useful for when the disk gets broken and we can restore the lost data (very important and useful).
RAID has multiple levels, where each level is just better than the previous one (both faster and loss resistant).
So the older levels are the older versions/algorithms that try to better prevent the data loss in our disks. For
these levels just check out the screenshot "RAID Levels.png".

So if we look at the RAID level 5 for example what we are doing is we have the parity values which help us restore
the data of each disk, and these parity values are also scattered across each disk too (so if the disk that has all
the parity values gets cororupted we will be fine). Note that the parity values that restore disk X can not be
stored in disk X too, they must be scattered between the other disks. It also makes it so we equally distribute
the disk writing across all the disks (unlike in RAID 4 where we don't do striping, so all parities are in a single
disk). RAID level 6 is basically the same as 5, but we got 2 parity blocks per stripe. I.e. 2 extra disks, with 2
parity value copies, and same distribution as in RAID level 5.

RAID level combinations like 10, and 01 (i.e. 1 + 0, and 0 + 1), are very confusing and I think there are
combnations that don't even make sense like RAID 55 or RAID 54. I honestly don't understand them and have no idea
on how they are to be interpreted at this point. Chat bots helped somewhat, but still confusing (and wrong).