--- Definitions ---
Program: A set of instructions to be done, like a recipe.
Process: The execution part of those instructions, like a person following a recipe.
Thread: Similar to process, but the data is shared (memory addresses instead of duplicates). Also they have their
  own states, stacks, registers, and counters, which make them slightly faster to switch between than processes.
Context switch: The process of switching from one running process to another, apparently it is slow for processes,
  but not for threads for reasons stated before.
Scheduler: A built-in OS process that decides when and on what to do context switch.
Dispatcher: A part of the scheduler that dispatches (e.g. moves) the selected process to the CPU.

--- Commands ---
fork(): A process can call a copy of itself which runs in parallel. It isn't an exact copy though, some things are
  not inherited and for example the PID (Program ID) of a parent is the return value of a child process, and that
  of a child is always 0.
clone(): Similar but not identical to fork.
vfork(): Similar but not identical to fork.
execve(char *filePath, char *params[], char *envp[]): The process executes another program in a given environment.
wait(int *status): The parent process waits until any of the child processes finishes to continue which. It returns
  the "pid_t" datatype which is the PID of the finished child process, and its status into the given address.
exit(int status): Exits the process prematurely and returns the status value "kill(pid_t PID, int signal)" which
  tells the target process to terminate itself.

--- Scheduling Algorithms ---
FIFO - First In First Out: Basically the same as a queue. For example, it prioritizes game logic over I/O.
SJF -  Shortest Job First: Basically a min priority queue. Similar example, it prioritizes I/O over game logic.
RR - Round Robin: Same as FIFO but can't work on the same process for X time (like 10 miliseconds). Slower due to
  context switching, but is necessary for imitating parallel processing if there are too many processes / threads.
  Programs might take longer to finish on average, but wait time is incredibly short. Everything is seamless.
RM - Rate Monotonic: A priority queue for periodic real-time systems. So processors that are runned every now and
  then - periodic, and must finish until some deadline - real-time. Tasks that run more often get higher priority,
  and that priority is static, meaning that it is defined once for all the future processors doing this task.
EDF - Earliest Deadline First: A priority queue which has a dynamic way to define priorities. The closer scheduled
  process is to its deadline, the higher priority it gets.

--- Caveats ---
Due to these differences in return values, we can make the parent and child processes do different stuff. Fork
doesn't copy the memory addresses of a parent to a child, it creates duplicates instead with their own addresses.

Whenever using RR we must decide how often we do context switching which depends on how much time the processes
need CPU for to complete and how much they use Disk for. But I fail to understand why and how it relates. Perhaps
disk has its own scheduling and too high time between context switches bottlenecks it, not sure. Anyways if that is
the case and the disk usage is low, and if it is due to the bottleneck I described earlier, then lowering the time
between these context switches should reduce the bottleneck and cause a higher disk usage (good in this case). Note
that context switches aren't the fastest, and doing switches too often bottlenecks the CPU.

When designing the scheduler, think about what is the most important. Some processes are more important than the
others and must finish their work right away. This is called a preemptive classification, e.g. when a more
important process doesn't wait. But, if the current less important process is about to finish, it might be a good
idea to let it do that. This is called non-preemtive classification. Of course all of this applies to time frames
below what RR has set as the running limit (if RR was our choice).

Some processes are not equally as important as the real time processes, but are supposed to be more interactive
nonetheless, and for that we got priorities. These priorities are often pre-determined (static), but this might
change depending on how much time they take, and how little time they need (dynamic). However, this dynamic
behavior depends on the way the OS scheduler works and how it evaluates that. Static is obviously faster, but
having a dynamic system in place helps with interaction. Again, it is our goals that determine the way the OS
should be. In the end, there is often an idle priority scheduler which is basically what the device should do once
there are no tasks to be done left. So like creating backups I guess, or clearing unused memory?