--- Lecture 21.2 ---
We have already looked at some of the concurrency control during transaction management. Note that the transaction
management itself covers the Isolation and Consistency of the ACID's principles, whilst the concurrency control
covers Atomicity and Durability aspects. "L21.2 - Plan.png" is a roadmap and a bullet point of what we will need
to know, note that in section 2 ARIES is the best option and each of these protocols is a hierarchy building on the
previous protocol's ideas.

If you don't remember the types of failures that can occur, check out "L21.2 - Failure Types.png" for a reminder.
Also, remind yourself of the 3 recovery types: Easy, Hard, and Impossible. Easy is when the recoverability is
classified as "cascadeless". Hard is when there are cascades and it is then simply "recoverable" but not
"cascadeless". Impossible is not even "recoverable". Also, "strict" is basically when recoverability isn't even
required (I think), so it is also automatically "cascadeless" and "recoverable" as well (it is a hierarchy).

Now let's begin. So, with recoverability and transaction management systems we did not consider one thing: cache.
when we do read(X) and write(X), we don't write to the disk actually (but the transactions think we do), we
actually get the data from and write to the cache (because speed). After some time or under some condition, we do
synchronize the disk with the info found in the cache (not immediately because disk access is slower than cache).
Until then, cache is considered "dirty" due to asynchronization with the disk. Note that cache is electricity
dependent, and crashes may cause these committed changes to be lost (durability is compromised). So, the solution
is to keep the logs of actions transactions did, so we may continue where we left off. Also, sometimes some
processes are not recoverable from the logs and must be done anew.

P.S. cache is defined as "a collection of buffers/pages, a.k.a. blocks in main memory ...", so RAM, and CPU cache,
etc. "... with corresponding blocks on disk". Basically, the requested data by the transactions is loaded into
the "cache" in sizes of blocks found on disk (i.e. request just X -> get the whole block of data within which X
is). Note that this loaded data stays there for future use, unless too little memory space left, then we replace
some unused or least frequently accessed and such (depends on the algorithm - IN2140 covers this), this process is
actually called a "flush", e.g. flushing cache's buffer. Note that not all data can be flushed, because the changes
in the buffer might not have been registered on the disk yet, so the algoritms may differ, but we got 2 main ones:
1. In-place flushing: Basically we keep a dirty bit and check it before flushing, if dirty bit is 1, then we save
   the changes to disk and then flush. Otherwise, if the dirty bit is 0 we just flush. Most popular method btw...
2. Shadowing: Basically the same as in-place flushing, but when the dirty bit is 1 instead of rewriting the
   original data on disk, we create a new version of it and save it on the disk, so we have this version and the
   old version on the disk. This way no logging is needed for recovery. But if that is the case, I think I
   misunderstood the problem with recovery and cache then, or perhaps that literally is the log itself? Idk...

As for the flushing algorithm we use LRU (Least Recently Used is flushed). However, for efficiency we optimize it
to work with databases by giving DB's data its own dedicated cache, indexes its own cache, relations, logs, etc.
This is called Domain Separation, and we need this because "choosing a domain may depend on the replacement policy"
or whatever... I think that this also means that each one gets its own LRU specific policy.

These specific flushing algorithms are further improved by additional methods like Group LRU, Hot Set (LRU), Clock
Sweep (Least Used), and DBMIN though DBMIN will not be covered. Group LRU is basically a dynamic cache separation
(not really sure how this grouping works and thus benefits the system's efficiency). Hot set is basically adding a
priority to some buffers saying "hey, please don't flush this one if you can, unless you really have to", so if the
cache is full of these buffers, it might flush them anyways, otherwise look for one with lower priority to flush.
Hot set is used for when some cached data is really important and should not really be flushed... Clock sweep is
basically counting how many times the buffer was used. If used increase the counter, if not then decrease it, the
buffer with the least counter is flushed. P.S. Hot Set can be combined with others (it is more of a property).



--- Lecture 22 ---
The way we recover from the committed data in cache being lost is via logs and checkpoints. Logs are write only
for the transactions, and read only for the recovery system which keeps track of all the things that transactions
have written to the cache and which versions they've read as well as the older committed values that got rewritten.
The new commits and version reads are needed to Redo a transaction in case it wasn't done committing or the
commits weren't saved to the disk, and the old values are needed to Undo actions in case a transaction is aborted.

By the way, log is saved and stored on the disk which means that if the disk is damaged it may also be affected
just like the disk that stores the committed data. Same goes for cache, because logs are first changed in cache
and only then saved to disk. And whenever some cache (not the log) is flushed, so should be the log, but the log
first in order to recover and ensure synchronization. As to why we keep the log in the first place and not just
flush the cache (which we do each time we flush a log), that's because the vice versa doesn't always apply. Log
often has a single dedicated buffer which is flushed very often, more than the changes done by transactions. And
since logs only keep the commits (unlike buffers with committed data which also have lots that is most likely
irrelevant) they are more much more efficient. So whenever a log flushes, it isn't necessarily the case that some
other buffer (where transactions originally committed to) is also flushed. Also, keeping read versions is only
needed if cascades exist.

Of course the schedule never stops and the system is always running which may result in logs being absurdly huge
to the point that if our system crashes after a week or consistent work recovering from the beginning (according to
the logs) is going to take absurd amounts of time. To make it more efficient we create "checkpoints" which is
basically when we suspend transactions for a few seconds from working, then we flush the whole cache (and thus the
logs too), and then resume the work. This is typically done every few minutes to make recovery fast and is saved
inside a log (as a part of it). Note that there are tricks that we may use to make it such that checkpoints won't
need to suspend transactions (optimization).

So yeah, that is it for the concepts, and now we are going to look at the hierarchy of protocols that I talked
about where ARIES is the bottom one and the clear winner (worst first, each one expands on previous's ideas):
By the way here we will be assuming that strict two-phase locking transaction management protocol is used.

1. Shadowing - Basically when we flush we don't overwrite the old version, so all these old versions act as logs
   and checkpoints. If all a transaction commits then its old version is deleted and only new one is kept which
   defines the next checkpoint basically (more like an updated version of a checkpoint). The disadvantage is
   obviously the space that is taken, older versions are not ordered in the disk, and requires some "complicated
   garbage collection", again most likely due to deleting old logs and we don't know their order, so...

2. Deferred Update - Here the idea is to flush only once the whole transaction commits and is done which is
   essentially creating a checkpoint. That is unless it crashes whilst doing that, which is possible since a log
   is just a single buffer, but all of the transaction's commits scattered across multiple buffers might not finish
   saving into the disk (due to there being possibly multiple buffers and a crash between them). That is when we
   do a Redo. The transactions that commited some stuff but not all are essentially never saved on disk, and thus
   it is as if none of their commits ever happened (no Undo needed). The downside is the log's cache size since
   all of the changes in those many buffers should fit into a single buffer (might not fit).

3. Immediate Update - Basically the system at some point (maybe after some time or some number of commits) decides
   to flush everything and create a checkpoint. At that point all the transactions are paused, commits are logged
   and the log is flushed (i.e. write ahead first). Once a transaction decides to commit first its changes are
   logged and the log is committed (standard procedure). Once a flush of everything is done that is considered a
   checkpoint, and when a single transaction has fully committed that is also a checkpoint. Basically everytime
   a flush of a non-log buffer is done is a checkpoint (in all these protocols before and future ones too). So
   here we do both Undoing and Redoing.
   
   You can actually check out an example "L22 - Immediate Update.png" where in the Deferred update we didn't even
   need to bother about T4 and T5, but now these have to be actively Undone. As for T1, T2, and T3 we simply have
   all of them flushed and the checkpoint is actually at T2, or do a Redo based on what the log says (same as in
   Deferred Update). The difference is that some of the T4 and T5 commits are be flushed; Essentially making the
   protocol worse than the Deferred Update? Well it is a trade-off, Deferred Update doesn't need to Undo anything,
   but the Immediate Update doesn't limit the log's buffer size, basically creating checkpoints once the log's
   buffer is full, a luxury that Deferred Update can't do and thus won't be able to include all the changes.

4. Fuzzy Checkpoints - Basically we solve the problem of having to suspend the transactions. What we do is we flush
   buffers as they are being changed by the transactions (so in parallel with the transactions). It will take
   longer due to it being done in parallel, and we can even have multiple checkpoints being done simultaneously.
   To fix this we simply point out in the logs when the checkpoint N starts and when it ends. The last one to end
   successfully (without crashing before it is completed) is the one we go from, everything that the crashed
   checkpoint had flushed is Undone, as well as everything that has to be undone in the checkpoint we chose.

5. ARIES - It stands for Algorithm for Recovery and Isolation Exploiting Semantics (whew... what a long name). It
   has a lot of improvements which are not discussed or pointed out unfortunately, but the only one that is
   mentioned is how we do checkpoints (we improve the Fuzzy Checkpoints here). The idea is that instead of flushing
   everything which is what Immediate Update does, we instead save a table of all the current dirty buffers into
   our log (also fuzzy). So everything that is not in the log is flushed and saved on the disk, what is in the
   table are the dirty buffers which need to be recovered (either Redone or Undone). All of this simply makes the
   checkpoint making much faster.

P.S. If you are confused after all this and not sure what Undone or Redone is or such, ask yourself this: Why do
we need logs in the first place? Then, what are checkpoints? Now I will give you a reminder: Atomicity has to be
upheld, meaning that either the whole transaction commits, or none of its commits are done. That is what the Undo
and Redo is for. Undo is for when all of the transaction's commits were not flushed, thus not checkpointed, and
thus have to be undone to respect the atomicity. Redo is for when the whole transaction committed, but wasn't
flushed and thus not checkpointed, so it has to be Redone since it technically succeeded, but durability was
compromised during this saving process.



--- Lecture 23.1 ---
You can check out the example of an ARIES recovery protocol (the log table) in the "L23.1 - ARIES Example.png".
For a detailed explanation you should check out the lecture video itself or ask AI (but lecture is better).

Now we briefly move on to other considerations. Now remember that all of this requires some preparation, and here
we only considered cache crashing and not disk corruption and such (here both the changes and the logs can be
corrupted which is most likely not recoverable whatsoever). Most is usually fixed by creating backups of logs or
whole databases. The golden rule from a YouTube video that I've heard is "3 Backups to Media and 1 Off Site.",
what is the "Media" and "Off Site" I don't know... But the song is great! Usually these backups are stored in
different geographical places, it was pointed out that the sub-terrarean sites are safer.