Statement:
Something that is said, it can be true or false.
Like for example: "I am a cat" is a statemenet.
Whether it is true or false is not important.



Existential Statement:
This is a specific type of statemenet. It is caregorized
as a statement that talks about the existence of something.
Not if "I am a cat", but "A cat exists". After all, there is
no point in talking about whether "I am a cat" or not if the
said "cat" doesn't even exist.



Conjecture:
This is something that we believed, or currently have a feeling
for, is true. A statement that was not formally proven, but is
thought to be true, yet not proven to be so.



Arbitrary:
When it is said that we choose an arbitrary element, it doesn't
mean one at random, it means that whatever choice we make, we
can take another one instead. So it is not one random that we take,
but it is all randoms that we take and, except that we look at
one at a time. We still can choose a different random element.



Trivial:
If something is obviously true or it's truth is completely
independent of the premises/assumptions before it. For
example: If it is raining, then 2 + 2 = 4. This is trivially
true, not because there is a connection between the rain and
math we did, but because 2 + 2 = 4 is true on its own. So
the condition has nothing to do with it, and since no condition
has anything to do with it in this example, it is trivially
true that 2 + 2 = 4 because 2 + 2 is indeed 4.



Direct Proof:
If we know that proving one of the sub-statements will
prove the other sub-statements, then by proving one of
the sub-statements we can prove the statemenet as a whole.

This is quite confusing because it is hard to explain.
Here is an example: Let's say that if A, then B, and we
want to prove A ∧ B. Well if we know that A, then we
know B, and if we know A and we know B, we know A ∧ B.



Existential Proof:
These types of proofs usually require a simple singular
example or some logical steps to accomplish. So if we
for example want to know whether cats from a set C
exist, we only need to find one cat to prove C.



Proof by Cases / Exhaustion:
Lets say we have sets S = {1, 2}, B = {1, 2, 3, 4}, and
now we want to prove that S ⊆ B. Well, you could just
prove each case separately. So like, is 1 ∈ B? is 2 ∈ B?
We accounted for all of the cases, thus an exhaustion proof.



Contrapositive Proof:
Say we have a statement if F then G where F and G are some
arbitrary statements. Proving F which would then prove G is
not always as easy. We can instead prove ¬G which would
prove ¬F. So instead of trying to prove F, if F is actually
not the case, then proving ¬F was the way to go. So instead
of trying to prove your statement, you disprove it.



Proof by Contradiction:
Let's say that we want to prove that the statement is true.
This may be hard, so what we can do instead is to prove that
it is impossible for it to be false. This is a proof by
contradiction. We assume that the statement is false instead,
and we work our way to a contradiction which says that
falsifiability can not happen, thus it must be a tautology.
This of course was just an example.



Constructive Proofs:
This is a type of proofs that show the truthfulness or
falsehood directly. If there is life on Mars for example,
and let's say there is, then a constructive proof would
require the sample of live organisms from Mars.



Non-Constructive Proofs:
This is a type of proofs that work their way backwards.
If there is life on Mars, and let's say that there is,
then a non-constructive proof would require a data of
Mars's history and its current state and data prediction
model that says if a planet X has a these characteristics,
then it is 100% guaranteed to have live organisms to be true.

This is just a fabricated example, hope it makes sense.
Basically, a contradictive proof is non-constructive, but
a proof by cases for example is construtive. Hope that helps.



Example:
Something that attempts to give a more direct showcase
of a concept that was attempted to be explained. Giving
an example for your proof of existence is all that is required.
Giving all the examples for exhaustion proof is too. Cat is
an example of the existence of cats.



Counter Example:
This is an example that instead of aiding the statement,
does the opposite. This is an example that shows that the
statement does not hold in a fabricated case. Nothing is
a counter example of a cat, but 5 + 3 = 7 is a counter
example of for all x and for all y, x + y = 7.



Soundness:
If a model or a system is said to be sound,
then everything that is provable is true.



Completeness:
If a model or a system is said to be complete,
then everything that is true is provable.



Logical consequence: —
If a set of premises or in other words assumptions A are
given and we know that from those we can come to a
conclusion B, B is the logical consequence of A.

So for example if we know that if A is true then B is true, then
that is the logical consequence right there. Logical consequence
can be denoted with a turnstile and a double turnstile to be
more precise with syntatic and semantic consequences.



Syntatic consequence: ⊢
In a given model, from it the consequences can be
derived, so they may be either true or false, but the
important fact is that it is possible to figure it out.



Semantic consequence: ⊨
In a model where the premises are true the conclusions
are also true. This way the truth is preserved. But
there is no guarantee that all the conclusions can
be derived to be true from a given model.