Abstract Datatype (ADT):
This is a datatype that says how data will behave,
but says nothing about how it is to be implemented.
Kind of like interface in Java, but for datatypes.

This is mostly used for lists to describe stuff like
what functions array, or a stack, or a queue have, etc.
But it does not say how those are implemented, only what
inputs they take in and what they return (so interface).

Note that it also means that we introduce the function
itself too, so we introduce like a stack for example
and specify what it can do like pop(), add(), etc.
but again, not how those are implemented nor efficiency.



P Class:
A problem is in a class P if there exists an algorithm
that can solve the problem in polynomial time. Meaning,
an algorithm of form O(n^m) where m is a constant.



NP Class:
A problem is in a class NP if the solution provided
by an algorithm to the problem can be verified in
polynomial time, so O(n^m) where m is a constant.
NP problems can also not be solved in O(n^m), it
takes longer than that to solve them (exponential).

Therefore, all the problems that are in NP are
at least as hard (or rather as slow) as all the
algorithms in class P (polynomial time).



NP Hard Class:
These are the problems that are at least as hard
as all the algorithms in NP class. So these are
like the hardest of NP problems which might not
even be possible to verify in polynomial time.

However, it doesn't mean that they can't be verified
in polynomial time, or that they all take longer to
solve than NP Class problems.

All it means is that all NP class problems can be
reduced to them in polynomial time, check out what
reduction means and how to do it for more. This also
means that if you could solve an NP-Hard problem in
polynomial time, then all NP problems can be too.



NP Complete Class:
If a problem is both in NP and NP-Hard class like
an SAT solver, meaning that it can be verified in
polynomial time, and it takes longer than polynomial
time to solve, and any NP problem can be reduced to
it in polynomial time, then it is also NP Complete.



Does P = NP?:
Basically, if a problem can be verified in polynomial
time (it is in NP), then to solve the problem itself
it takes at least an algorithm of the same caliber
(polynomial, class P).

The question however is, are all the solutions that can
be verified in polynomial time, also have an algorithm
that can find those solutions in polynomial time too?

Because as of today, there exist cases such as a game
sudoku where we can verify the solution in polynomial
time, but still can't find an algorithm that can find a
solution to it in a polynomial time aswell. This leads
many to believe that P ≠ NP. Basically, that verifying a
solution might be logarithmically (or further) easier
than finding a solution from the initial state.



Polynomial Reduction:
This is an algorithm that can turn all the solutions of
a problem A into a problem B in polynomial time. So if
a specific state of a problem A returns true (meaning
that it is valid and such), then so should its reduced
version (simplified version) B too. Same goes for all
the returns of false.

For example if we have an algorithm A that determines
whether an input N is odd, then we can reduce it into
an algorithm B which determined if an input M is even
through a reduction algorithm that substitutes the
input M from B with an input N + 1 from A.

We will learn how to do this if we take IN2080 though.