Bubble sort:
Goes through the whole array and switches x with x-1 if necessary.
Next time we switch again from start, but up to n-2 instead of n-1.
It repeats this until it is sure that an array is sorted (n-1 times).



Selection sort:
Finds the smallest value A and places it first (checks whole array
first for this, n-1). Then repeats for second, third, etc. until n-1.



Insertion sort:
Places values where they are supposed to be relative to each other.
It splits the array into a sorted and unsorted part and inserts the
values n-1 times. Example: We start with 3, 2, 1, 5, 4. After first
Iteration we get 2, 3, 1, 5, 4. Next: 1, 2, 3, 5, 4. Next: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
It is similar to selection sort, but instead of placing value where it is
supposed to be from the start, we place it where it is supposed to be
relative to the sorted part on the left.



Heap sort:
Note that this is more of a how to sort a heap and not an array. So to
make it work with array first convert an array to a max-heap. To sort
max-heap we first let i=H[n-1] where n is the size of the heap and H is
the heap. Then we switch root with i and sink the new root to where it is
supposed to be. However, we do not sink it further if it gets into the
sorted part. To avoid this, we specify the part that is unsorted yet,
namely n-2, then n-3, and so on. Now we repeat this process until done sorting.
It is like an insertion sort where we create a sorted part and an unsorted one.
The sorted part starts at the end though.



Merge sort:
Divide array into pairs of 2, sort those, and then merge those pairs into
2 again, and again and so on. So we get 2 elements per pair first, then 4
per pair, then 8, ... This way the time complexity is O(n * log(n)). Note
that the way we merge is O(n). That is because the two sub-arrays are already
sorted, so we don't need to iterate over them multiple times, just once. Kind
of like a simplified selection sort. And since we repeat this process O(log(n))
times and not O(n) due to splitting, the total time becomes O(n * log(n)).



Quicksort:
Choose a pivot (a reference point) first. Everything to the left of the pivot
should be smaller than it is, everything to the right is bigger. To make it so
we look for the incorrect values on both sides and switch them places. So find
the incorrect on left, then one on the right, and then switch. If one of these
two pointers did not find the wrong value, then they meet eventually. Once they
do we switch places with the pivot (depends on side chosen, if we choose left
pointer as the main one then the pivot switches with the right most value first,
then the left pointer goes first, if it doesn't find anything wrong then we choose
a new pivot and start over again. If the left pointer finds wrong value and the
right doesn't, then we switch our pivot at the point where left and right meet,
this second part is a successful one so we split and continue our quicksort. If
we were to choose right as main pointer, then we switch pivot with left most value
and the right pointer goes first.). Then repeat this for left and right parts (it
is kinda like merge sort). We only repeat same process without progress only if
a bad pivot was chosen and no changes had to be made in the first place by the
main pointer (depends if left or right pointer goes first).

Efficiency depends on how well the pivot was chosen, yet there doesn't exist the
best method of finding one. Ideally you would want to choose the median value,
but to find one you need to use O(n) time for this. Therefore the common method
is to either choose randomly, or calculate the median between the first, last,
and middle values. Can also be the median between 3 random values, 5, etc. But
at that point we are just getting to the O(n) method. Just don't pick first or
last values as your pivot since it is the worst case scenario.



Bucket sort:
This sorting algorithm works for finite sets. Natural numbers for example are
an infinitely large set N, so we can not use bucket sort there unless we find
some other category we can sort it by (such as being even or odd for example).

Next we create array lists for each of the categories which for convenience
lets say we work with a set of cards (A < 2 < ... < 10 < J < Q < K) which
result in a total of 13 array lists (one for each category). Now, we simply
go over the random list and put these values into their corresponding array
list. This makes the algorithm finish in an O(n) time.

But, since a set of cards also has a symbol (club < diamond < heart < spade)
we can create an arraylist for those too, so 4 more array lists. Since we have
the values already sorted, we can read those in order then sort by the symbols
as well. After that, again, since the array lists were placed in the right order
from the start (need that kind of setup), we can put it all into a single list
and read everything from there making the whole thing in O(2n) = O(n).



Radix sort:
Basically a bucket sort but with multiple bucket sort iterations such as in
the example with cards seen in the bucket sort description. If we were to
only have just (A < 2 < ... < 10 < J < Q < K) so 13 arrays without any more
iterations then it wouldn't be a radix sort. Because there was the next
iteration (4 more array lists with club < diamond < heart < spade), it
then became a radix sort. Used when data can be ordered lexicographicly.