A tree is like a file hierarchy. Start with the
main folder, and go down the folder line. The main
reason we do this is to sort stuff faster. This
method allows us to find a file in O(log(n)) time too.

Folders that are in the same folder are called
siblings. Folders that are inside a folder are
called children, and children's folders are parents.
The folder with no parents is the root folder.

Depth is how far from the root folder the
folder is. If there is no root, then -1, if
there is only root folder, then 0 is the depth.
Height is the maximum depth of a folder.



Apparently we might want to do operations during
the time we are traversing the trees. Preorder is
when we initialize our operation on current node first,
and then the children nodes, and postorder is vice versa.

This is mostly for recursive functions. For example, to
copy a tree you would use a preorder where you copy the
main element first, and then recursively copy their kids.
But, to delete a tree, you would delete children first,
then the root (assuming no garbage collector is present).



There are multiple tree algorithms, mostly binary.
Binary Tree: Nodes that has max 2 children.
Balanced Tree: The shallowest spots are filled first.

AVL Tree is a tree that is always sorted. It does so
by having the middle as the head. To the left of the head
we have nodes that are lower than the middle, and to the
right, we have nodes that are higher than the middle. We
also rotate the tree through left, right, and double rotations.
This way we keep it balanced once new nodes are added.

Red-Black Tree is a tree that is simplier than the AVL Tree,
but is worse at keeping itself balanced. This is for when we
value simplicity over complexity, mostly when memory is limited.
It is the way that Java implements trees I think.

Binary Heaps are like binary trees where their elements are comparable.
The parent is always bigger than both children. And whenever there
is an empty space, the shallowest one is filled, from left to right.
Thus it is always balanced, but not sorted. Still, the elements can be
located in O(log(n)) time due to min/max property.

Huffman Coding is a brilliant compression technique.
It compresses by looking at the symbol frequencies and
redefines what bits represent which symbol (encoding).
It works by making it so that no sequence of bits has a
subsequence in it, like 010 in 0101 <- Not allowed.
The way we can dynamically encode files like that is
to assign those bit sequences through a tree. Check out
Huffman-Coding.png to see how it works exactly.