As we've seen before, there are languages that are not regular (one of the ways to prove that one is, is by using the
pumping lemma from before). However, some of these that are not regular can be described by context-free grammar.

It goes as follows: "S -> xSy", which is a rewriting rule where we go from what is on the left to what is on the
right. Note that the symbols "x" and "y" are just placeholders for any symbol combination. Either can be an empty
string or a simple constant. As long as we have S we can apply a rule to it (from the list of rules we got), so here
we have just one rule, which we will change to a constant as "S -> aSb", so if we have a string variable "bSa", and
apply the rule to it, we get "abSab", then again to get "aabSabb", then "aaabSabbb", and so on... Since we never
have a rule where S can become an empty string, it will never end. So we add "S -> ε" to allow for that.

These rules can be summarized using a logic OR written as "|" symbol, like "S -> aSb | ε" from our previous example.
To describe the whole process just like with DFAs, NFAs, etc. We define the context-free grammar as a tuple made up
of 4 components as follows: G = (V, Σ, R, S) where G is our grammar. That makes L(G) the language generated by this
context-free grammar (CFG for short) G. For the definition of V, Σ, R, and S see "Context-Free Grammar.png".

We can translate a DFA (and thus a NFA, and a GNFA too) into GFA. We do this by simply translating each transition
from one state δ(q_0, x) = q_1 as a rewriting rule Q_0 -> xQ_1, simple as that. For accepting states Q_x we also add
rewriting rule Q_x -> ε where q_x is an accepting state. This means that GFA can describe more than DFAs and such,
because the GFA can describe what DFAs and such can't as well as the DFAs and such themselves.

These types of translated grammars are also called regular grammars which also describe regular languages. So if all
the rules are either "Q -> x", "Q -> xR", or "Q -> ε" in our context-free grammar, then we got a GFA. Context-free
grammar is closed under union, concatenation, and kleene-star. Meaning that if we use these operations on or between
any context-free grammars, then we will also get a context-free grammar as a result of all of these. However, it is
not closed under complement, nor is it closed under intersection, and thus difference too (wasn't told why though).

Every context-free language (CFL) can be described by a context-free grammar (CFG) that is in Chomsky Normal Form
(CNF) which goes as follows: 1. A -> BC, where neither B and C are the start variables 2. A -> x, where x is any
terminal, i.e. a symbol in and not a variable like S. Also, S -> ε is allowed, where S is the start variable. For
an example and an algorithm check out the "Convertion to CNF.png". We can introduce help variables in the meantime
during the algorithm.

Lastly we talk about ambiguity. Whenever we have a string in our language, if we can derive this string from a 
context-free grammar (CFG) through multiple derivations (through a logic OR "|"), then the grammar that generated
that language which has at least one such string in it is considered ambigous. Like getting the same result string
"A + A * A" from either using a rewrite rule of "A -> A + A" or "A -> A * A" first from "A -> A + A | A * A". Some
grammars like this one can be redefined to avoid ambiguity. However, there exist languages that can only be described
by an ambiguous grammar, those are inherently ambiguous and can't be redefined to avoid it.