--- PDAs ---
DFA/NFA/RE/GNFA are all computational models with finite memory, but what model can accept context-free languages?
For that we need one with infinite memory called pushdown automata (PDA). The type of infinite memory that we have
is a stack with a LIFO algorithm (Last In First Out). PDA is basically an NFA with just an infinite memory stack.
For a more formal definition check out "PDA Definition.png".

NFAs simply read the input and switched states depending on that input. PDAs do that too, but they also have a
stack which is used to also store some of this read data for later use (a stack to write to and read from). For the
way we write this all down, how it looks, and such check out "PDA Syntax.png". Note that A and B are example
states. There is also an example from the lecture which shows how we can describe the previously indescribable
language by NFA in a PDA at "PDA Example 1.png". Since PDA is an NFA, if there exists an interpretation that we
accept, then we accept the whole input (even if there exist derivations that do not lead to an accept state). This
is important for another problem we couldn't describe before at "PDA Example 2.png".

More about accepting, here is how a PDA must start, go, and end like for it to accept a string. First we can only
have one start state, and at the start the stack must be empty. During the transitioning between the states, we can
read a string's symbol thus moving to another state, read/write to the stack, or both of these two at the same
time. Lastly and obviously, after reading the whole string the PDA must end up in an accepting state.

Whenever we are writing "X, Y -> Z", i.e. going from state A to one of the states B that requires X as the
transition symbol from the input as well as popping Y out of the stack and adding Z to the stack, all of that
actually is done through a single state. But if we have "X, Y -> aZb" for example, we need multiple pops and
pushes, so this is a short-hand notation for something like this: "X, Y -> b", then "ε, ε -> Z", and in lastly in
our case "ε, ε -> a". Note the reversed order from "aZb" to "bZa" due to the nature of push (LIFO data structure).

--- PDA <-> CFG Theorem ---
Anyways, if we got a CFG then there must be a PDA that accepts a language constructed through this type of grammar.
There is a proof for that where we first look at an algorithm which always constructs one, and then formalize it which can be seen in "PDA for a CFG type language.png".

However, to prove that from a PDA we get a context-free language is something that will be done in lecture 7 which
is where we will finish the proof of a theorem "A language is context-free (CFL) if and only if some pushdown
automaton (PDA) recognizes it". For now we do some assumptions like 1. Our PDA only has one accept state, 2. The
stack is empty before accept state, and 3. No simultaneous push & pop (i.e. both a push and a pop in a single
transition between two states).

Due to assumption 3. what we end up with is a PDA where we just apply the short-hand notation we discussed before
in a similar fashion here as well. Due to assumption 2 we know that there must exist a variable that generates
strings the PDA accepts which results in an empty stack before the accept state. In the lecture there is talk about
the fact that if the PDA accepts the strings generated, then the first transition must be a push only (due to
assumption 3.), and the last must be a pop only (also due to assumption 3.). Then there is the fact that the values
pushed and popped are possibly not the same, so if we have a variable A that takes us from start to accept states,
and the push & pop aren't the same, then A can be broken down into an xBy (i.e. A -> xBy) variable where x is the
first pushed symbol, y is the last popped symbol, and B has the same nature and role as A. Lastly, if there are
no states to traverse, then there is no push and pop so the A may also generate an empty string. However, I fail
to see why it is important to discuss the nature of A and how it works. But alas, we just go with it I guess...
All of these assumption 2 details on how the A works look like this: "Magic Variable A.png".

Anyways, the lemmas are as follows: 1. "if A_pq generates x, then x brings P from p to q with empty stacks", and
2. "if x can bring P from p to q with empty stacks, then A_pq generates x", both of which we prove using a method
of induction. 1. Lemma: In the base case our PDA only has 1 derivation step, and this allows for only one rewrite
rule that leads to a terminal which is "A_pp -> ε". Then in the induction step we assume that A can generate such
an x in k derivations (i.e. rewrite rules). Now we show that in two cases, namely "A_pq -> a(A_rs)b" and in the
"A_pq -> (A_pr)(A_rq)" both lead to the number of derivations shrinking (from k + 1 to k) and an empty stack. This
means that it can cascade like that and shrink further from any size to the base case which we know is true.
2. Lemma: In the base case the x is empty which leads to no read and thus 0 computation steps where due to the
"A_pp -> ε" rule the base case is proved by definition. Here (just like previously) we assume that this second
lemma is true for computations that take k steps. Here we divide into 2 cases, either the stack is empty only at
the beginning and the end, or it is emptied inbetween them. Here we do similarly to how the first lemma was proven
where we show that we divide it and thus it shrinks, and since it holds for k + 1 it holds for k, and since it
holds for base case, it holds for the one above, and so on...

P.S. Something tells me this was the lecture 7, but we are going to go with what the presentations are named by so
that's that. Any complaints to the professor that made this stuff, especially these tideous to understand proofs,
but they are by no means complicated, I just couldn't give myself enough time to figure them out completely myself
and analyze the decisions and reasons for them made carefully which makes it really hard to remember due to my lack
of complete understanding of these choices (which is how I remember stuff - by understanding why not otherwise).