Degree: deg(_)
This is a characteristic of a node. It says
how many edges are connected to a node. So
if there are 3 edges coming from a node
v, then v's degree is 3.

Note that in a looped connection where edge
is {v, v}, it goes from v twice, so it counts
as 2 more, not just 1 more.



Isolated:
If a node does not have an edge connected
to it, so deg(v) = 0, then it is said
to be isolated.




Empty / Null Graph:
This is a type of graph that does not have
any edges, just the nodes. So E = {} or Ø.



Complete Graph:
If all of the nodes are neighbours to each other,
then the graph is considered to be complete. A
complete graph with n nodes is written as K_n.



Complement Graph:
This type of graph is like an inverse of an
arbitrary graph G that was given before. So
a complement graph G̅ of G is the one that has
all of its nodes connected by an edge, except
for the ones that are connected in G. So what
was not connected in G before, now is in a
complement of G, namely G̅, and vice versa.

Whenever taking a complement of a graph, some
graphs are their own complements, meaning that
if you take a complement of a graph G that is
its own complement you will get G back. No
changes would be made in practice.



Directed / Multi / Pseudo Graphs:
Normally it is not allowed for an edge to connect
two of the same nodes, but if we say that an edge
is a tuple instead of a set, then we can do it.
Same goes for if we want edges to have a one way
connection, so a relation again. The loosening of
such restrictions, and the graphs that adpot these
modifications are called multigraphs or pseudographs.



Directed Graphs:
These graphs use tuples, but the condition is
such that they are to be used like sets and
the main definition of a graph, the only new
rule is that tuples are to be used to show
direction, from where to where the edge goes.
So <u, v> is not the same as <v, u> anymore.

Note that sometimes repeating edges and
looped connections to the same node may
be permitted by this type of graph.



Multi Graphs:
This version does not use tuples, it uses
multi sets. Multi sets simply allow the
repetitions of the same set to stay in it.
So now two nodes {u, v} are still the same
as {v, u}, but the amount of these connections
that can be repeated has no limits.



Pseudo Graphs:
This is an extension of a multi graph. It
allows not only the use of mutli sets, but
also allows these edges to point to one
and same node, so {u, u} is permited.



Planar Graph:
This is a graph that looks like no edges
cross. So a graph can be pseudo and planar.
This is pure visual characteristic.



Connected Graph:
If there exists a walk that goes through
all of the nodes of the graph, then it is
connected. It means that there are no splits,
so all of the nodes make up a single object.



Closed Walk:
A walk where the first and last nodes are the
same node is called closed, it means that you
started from the start, and returned back to it.



Circuit Walk:
A walk where no edge is being repeated is called
a circuit. So if not edges repeat <-> circuit path.



Euler Walk:
If there is a walk where all of the edges are
being used, and no edges are repeated (so it
is a circuit walk as well), then it is called
an euler walk.



Euler Circuit:
If a walk has a property of an euler walk, so
no edges are repeated and all are used, and if
it also ends on the same node as the start, then
it is called an euler circuit.



Closed / Cycle Path:
Since paths can not have multiple of the same node,
for it to be closed we instead require there to be
an edge that connects the last node to the first.
This way it is now closed, just like the walk is.

A graph that does not have such property is also
called acyclic. This means that it is not cyclic.



Hamiltons's Path:
This is a path that uses all of the nodes, so it
is a connected path, but not a closed one.



Hamilton's Cycle:
This is a combination of hamilton's and closed paths.
You must use all the nodes exactly once, and at the end
you must land at the last to be used node that has an edge
to the first node, but that hasn't necessarily used it.
