Vertices / Nodes: V
A vertex or a node is a point to which we can
draw connections to. Vertices V is a set of such
nodes, so V = {1, 2, 3} is a set of nodes. So we
got |V| = 3 nodes which we can connect to (or not).



Edges: E
An edge is a set that holds precisely two elements.
These two elements must be different nodes. This way
we can connect the nodes to each other. So it is
a line that we draw that connects two nodes. E is a
set of such edges, E = {{1, 2}, {2, 3}}, here we
connect two nodes 1 and 2, and another two, 2 and 3.

Whenever an edge is made sometimes it is said
that the two nodes chosen, v and u for example,
E = {u, v} lay incident to u and v and these
nodes can also be called adjacent / neighbours.



Graph: G
A graph consists of a non-endless, non-empty vertices
V accompanied by a set of edges E. So in total it shall
have 2 sets, V and E. A set of edges E can be empty, but
it can not be endless because then V would have to be too
and that is not allowed here.

If you want to get the nodes V and/or Edges E from
a graph, then you can write V(G) or E(G) respectively
to show that you look at nodes or edges of a graph G.



Walk / Tour:
It is a sequence that starts with a node v, and
continues by adding an edge e and another node u.
This another node can also be the same node v.
This pattern continues until end at which point
our walk is done.

So an example of one is as such: V = {A, B, C, D},
E = {e, f, g}, our walk becomes AeBfCgD, it can
also be something else, CeDgAfB. The first one
means that we start from a node A, then go to
node B by using edge e, etc.

The length of a walk is the amount of edges
used in it. So on our previous example AeBfCgD,
the length is 3, because 3 edges are used.



Path:
This is a type of walk where no nodes are
repeated, so there is no AeBeA, because A
is repeated twice in this example.



Trail:
This is a type of walk where no edges are
repeated, so there is no AeBeA, because e
is repeated twice in this example.



Handshaking Lemma:
Whenever counting amount of degrees a node
has, if a node has an odd number of degrees,
then it is added to our set S. The total
amount of elements or nodes in a set S is
always even, so |S| is even. This is what
the Handshaking Lemma says, and it is true.

Handshaking comes from the concept that was
explained. Lemma comes from the fact that
it is not very interesting on its own, but
is used in many places to assist in proofs.



Isomorphy:
If we have a graph G, and it has the same
form as another graph H, i.e. If we switch
up the way we look at it, not change its
structure, then G is an isomoprhy of H,
and vice versa. You can look at the picture in
this folder where they all have the
same form as the rest of the graphs.

You can use a bijective function where nodes
from G go to nodes to H, and if u and v are
neighbours in G, and f(u) and f(v) are neighbours
in H as well, then they are isomoprh.



Tree:
If a graph is connected and not cyclic everywhere,
then it is a tree. That is the basic definition.
If there exists a cycle, then it is not a tree.

Because of this the amount of edges that a tree
has is connected to the amount of nodes it has.
If a tree has n nodes, then the amount of edges
will be n - 1, and if n edges, then n + 1 nodes.



Leaf Node:
A node in a tree graph that has degree of 1,
so deg(v) = 1, is called a leaf node. It makes
sense when you think of actual trees.



Forest:
However, if the graph is acyclic, but not
connected, yet the parts that are not connected,
are connected, so the parts that are not connected
are trees, then the graph that consists of such
multiple trees is called a forest.