--- Modulator Demodulator (Modem) ---
Converts data traveling from cables, phone lines, fiber optics, etc. (i.e. analog signals) into a data that can be
understood and used by a device (i.e. bits). It also does the same for when data must be sent through the internet.
This device handles all of the layer 1 (physical layer) of the ISO OSI Layers model.



--- Switch ---
Manages all the connected devices within LAN directly through wired connection (i.e. ethernet). Since it directly
connects to each device it uses MAC Addresses to send data right to the correct device and port (no broadcasting
like with IPs) which results in a dedicated bandwidth for each device and thus no signal collisions.

Each device within LAN has a Local IP Address which is the address system used to send data to a device. It keeps
track of a Local IP Address <-> MAC Address map through what's called an ARP to figure out who to send the data to.
A reminder that this is done to isolate connections for speed. To figure out its own Local IP Address it and other
devices use what's called an RARP. So, it handles all of the layer 2 (data link layer) of the ISO OSI Layers model.



--- Router ---
Whenever data comes from a Modem it is Router's job to send the data to the right receiver within its LAN that it
mananages and creates through what's called a NAT. So whenever a device within LAN wants to reach the internet, the
router does it on its behalf. Within LAN it dynamically assigns Local IP addresses to each device through what's
called a DHCP and routes the data between them, including sending data to and from the modem for internet access.
This device handles all of the layer 3 (network layer) of the ISO OSI Layers model.

This device creates, manages, and makes use of its routing table for faster routing within its LAN and outside it
as well (internet is just a bunch of routers so doing that increases speed and reliability). For each destination
it has a list of potential routers it can forward the data to, all of which reach the destination of course.

Most devives that are marketed as a "Router" are actually a device that is a Modem, a small Switch, and a Router
all in one. It also includes a Wi-Fi access point which uses electromagnetic waves with a radio frequency to
broadcast data to a single device at a time. This is done so that these waves don't interfere with each other which
as you can imagine makes it much slower than a wired connection through a Switch. It also has a hardware like
firewall built into it as well. Lastly, since it is a switch as well it also does ARP, even through Wi-Fi which a
switch can't do (I believe), and since it is a router it doesn't do any RARP and doesn't forward any ARP requests.

Since this device also often comes with a Hardware Firewall it also does Port Forwarding which restricts receiving
data to and sending data from certain ports to the internet. Whenever you want to set up a server accessible from
the internet, the process that hosts the server must have its IP:Port whitelisted to establish a TCP connection.



--- Wireless Access Point (WAP) ---
This device connects to a router through an ethernet cable and allows other devices to connect to it wirelessly
(spreads router's Wi-Fi coverage). It does not manage the routing itself, that is still the router's job that it
is connected to. So it is simply an extension of a router to boost its wireless coverage and connection count.

Range Extender and Repeater are similar devices, but they connect to a router through a wireless connection and
simply re-broadcast the signal instead of a wired connection. That makes them much slower, but easier to setup.



--- Firewall ---
There are Hardware Firewalls and Software Firewalls. Hardware Firewalls manage the IPs and Ports that go to or come
from the internet (Port Forwarding). Software Firewalls do the same but unlike Hardware Firewalls are located on
the end-devices themselves. This allows Software Firewalls to manage exactly which apps can and can't send data,
because ports don't bear the information on which app sent it, just the process id which doesn't tell much about
it really. It also restricts sending data not only to the internet, but also to LAN stopping it before any signals
are sent. Lastly, Software Firewalls use the end-device's CPU and RAM, but not much... Businesses often have
multiple hardware firewalls within their LAN for more control in order to isolate and minimize breach severity,
and also utilize firewalls which look into the application data itself, not just the IP and the Port.



--- Network Interface Controller (NIC) ---
It actually goes by many similar names, but this is its formal name. It is a hardware part often built into the
motherboards that converts bits into Wi-Fi (radio waves) and ethernet (wired electrical signals). This is also
where the MAC Address can be found since each NIC comes with a unique identifier combination. Each ES (End System)
and each IS (Intermediate System) has a NIC.