--- Some Naming ---
Remember the OSI model from the networking structures section? Well, the two cases shown there were the specific
cases, and there is actually a general terminology for layers. Check out the "OSI Layers in General.png" because I
am too lazy to mention it here... Just note that peer entities means hardware or software or separate devices that
are supposed to achieve the same thing, but probably do so through different methods (due to protocols not being
standard enough). Speaking of protocols, check out "Protocol Definition.png" which points out exactly what a
protocol is in this context. Note that PDU is a general term for any type of message datatype, like a frame, a
packet, etc.



--- Switching & Routing in Detail ---
LAN (Local Area Netowrk) is the connection between the end-devices and the router. This router might be connected
to another router which also has its own LAN making this router's LAN a sub-LAN. For example, UiO has a LAN and a
bunch of sub-LANs some of which have their own sub-LANs and so on... Anyways, each of the devices within this LAN
have a local IP, so the global IP is the top router that is the host of the LAN and all the sub-LANs, i.e.
home/main routers. Local IPs are assigned by each router separately through what's called a DHCP (Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol) which are not recognized by anyone outside of the router's LAN. Global IPs are recognized
by every router out there, but they also are clueless as to any of the devices that exist within other router's
LANs and actually reach them because of the NAT (Network Address Translation) which is a map of Local IP:Port.A <->
Port.B which the router has to both send the data on the local device's behalf, and to send the data received to
the correct local device within its network.

P.S. I don't like the naming for IP address categorizing which are private and public, I prefer to call them local
and global respectively. That is because private IP address isn't private, and is well known by others in its LAN.
Global has a good synergy with local and is also exactly on point with what it means (unlike public, duh...).

We have all of it this way for a reason: And that is because we ran out of IPv4s long time ago... So, we invented
local IPv4s that the router's DHCP assigns and NAT which sends and receives the data on the local device's behalf.
So, when your device wants to send a message to someone that is in your LAN, the source and destination IP in layer
3 is a local one, such as from 192.168.1.10 to 192.168.1.3. If your LAN has multiple switches and routers, then it
traverses them using the MAC address from layer 2 and a Local IP address from layer 3, possibly with multiple NATs
involved since multiple routers within the LAN have their own LANs (i.e. sub-LANs). So the layer 2 decides the next
hop between the devices within a LAN, and the IP is the source and final destination, either within a sub-LAN,
within a LAN (same as within the sub-LANs), or between LANs (i.e. within the internet).

You might wonder if the internet is basically a huge LAN with lots of sub-LANs, but that is not accurate. That is
because this would imply a single router being in control of all the other routers, which is not the case. It is
not a star topology, but more like the partial mesh topology. Mostly because there are multiple central figures
all of which connect to each other through some business agreements (1. Transit, 2. Peering, or 3. IXPs).

So, the whole thing is only built on trust and that is where BGP protocol comes in. Basically each AS (some central
figure) asks each of its connections (other ASes) whether they know someone with an IP X that they wonder about.
Since it is only built on trust this also creates a vulnerability called BGP Hijacking where some trusted AS with
its IP X announces that is has some IP Y that it doesn't actually have. This allows it to drop the packet to
prevent the actual AS with IP Y from reaching it, intercepted and read if the security is bad, and maybe even
modify it (also if the security is bad).

That said, MAC address changes with each hop (to point to the next), but the layer 3 IP address never does. To hop
we need to know the next target's MAC address, that is when ARP comes in. ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) is
basically a process where we ask the neighbours who has the IP we want. To ask everyone we broadcast this message
to all using MAC address FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF which means send to all. Only the device which knows the next hop to the
IP that we want responds telling its MAC address to us, then we save it into our IP <-> MAC entries map in case we need it later (each entry usually lasts 1-5 minutes). If the network is too large, and there is like a router in
between, then that router usually re-sends the ARP request and the response that it got back aswell. Sometimes it
is a separate device of its own called a proxy ARP. Also, if a device doesn't know the IP it got assigned, it can
do what's called a reversed ARP or (RARP), which works similarly.

However, if the destination IP is a global one, then the source IP is that of the LAN's host router and not your
device's local IP instead. That is because your local IP doesn't really exist globally, there are too many similar
ones so nobody outside the LAN can know who you really are and where you are. So the process of using your router's
global IP instead is what we do (NAT, already mentioned before). Even if the destination still is in your LAN, it
might still traverse the whole internet, that is because your router might not have an updated list of these
networks or know where it is. Thus, the router in question assumes that the next provider knows where to send the
data to and thus forwards it to an another router that it believes knows better. The chosen router's IP is called
the default gateway, i.e. send messages to this IP if you can't find the IP address in your local area network.
Note that the default gateway is usually chosen to be a larger and/or more popular routing complex until some
central figure is reached which is when BGP is at play instead.

Lastly, when sending messages there is a limit to how many routers it can traverse before being automatically
discarded (we assume that it will never reach its target). This is done to prevent gibberish messages filling the
internet as well as to reduce router load and such.



--- Ports and Such ---
4th layer is the port which also decides the TCP/UDP connection and such. Layers 5-7 are the metadata that the
process/application itself is interested in. The application data sent is sometimes encrypted which depends on the
port used (HTTP vs HTTPS for example). Port is basically answering which process within a device should receive the
data which the router keeps track of as well using good old NAT (so yeah, not just IP translation).

Moving on, UDP connection is basically just 64-bit data line, i.e. 8 bytes, where the first 2 bytes say where the
data came from (port), and the next 2 bytes where and who the data is supposed to be sent to (port), then the next
2 bytes after that are the packet's length (including the data), and the rest 2 bytes is the checksum, i.e. the
error identification data, the rest of the buffer (after these 8 bytes) is the application data itself. Other layer
4 protocols like IP and TCP are larger than the UDP and more complicated... Check out the "Layer 4 - IPv4 & IPv6
Protocols.png".

That's why we have global IP and Port combinations, IP is which machine the data goes to, and port is the process
ID within that machine. We also need to open ports, which means that we let the data to come to this specific
process within the machine and this data to be processed by the process (which we choose how) through a firewall
(which can be its own device or a software inside one, both with their advantages and disadvantages).



--- Formatting and Little & Big Endians ---
We always separate everything by bytes in size (and not by bits), i.e. 36 is written as 00100100 because it is 1
byte in size, unlike 100100 which is technically the same, takes less space, but because it does not have byte as
a factor when it comes to its size, it is not optimized for and isn't standardized by protocols either. Also, there
are two ways that we can represent number 4 for example. 1st is as little endian format where we write 4 as
00100000, 2nd is as big endian format where we write 4 as 00000100, notice the reversed order. Little endians are
faster when working with CPUs, big endiands are faster in networking where we read and right away can send the
packet further as well as being able to read the first enveloped layer and not the last (naturally). Why little
endians are faster in CPUs I don't know unfortunately... With big endian we can identify the layer as we read the
buffer without needing to know nor analyze what the rest of the message is. So, the first bits in big endian are
therefore called the most significant bits because these are used the most at first around the globe to find the
shortest path to the local routers where the rest of the bits are used within the local area's network. So these
last bits are called the least significant, the significance is decided by the global router load and speed
optimization, so priority & scale.

We know that little endians is how CPUs format the data (sometimes, depends on machine). So, do we need to convert
the data from little endians to big endians manually before sending the data in C? The answer is no, not manually
at least, that is because for some reason the data is still stored as little endians in memory in those machines.
So, what we do is we use htonX(message) and ntohX(message) where hton transforms to big endian, and ntoh to little
or whatever is local on the machine. Note that the X stands for message length, like htons() is for uint16_t,
htonl() is for uint32_t, and htonll() is for uint64_t, similarly for ntohs(), ntohl(), and ntohll(). Not sure if
one for chars exists, but I assume not since mirroring 1 byte by bytes will result in the exact same result...

MAC addresses are split by byte into a total of 6 bytes. The first 3 bytes either explain whether the address is
special, or whether the address is owned by someone like a corporation (whatever that means), whilst the rest 3
are the network card's unique id. This type of split is standardized by IANA and IEEE. So a MAC Address has a
global and a local part. The local part is the unique id of each of the local machines in LAN connected by Ethernet
cables, or a Wi-Fi. Both look exactly the same, here is an example of one in Ethernet 4c:cc:6a:dc:22:8b, and one in
Wi-Fi 9c:b6:d0:19:1b:87. For the difference in network connection types, check out the videos I found on YouTube
for more... Also, note that the MAC addresses are unique for each network card (NIC) made, but it is possible to
spoof it (i.e. lie when asked what MAC address you got).