Database or DB for short:
A place where data is stored. For example
HDs (Hard Drives) and SSDs (Solid State Drives)

The point of databases is to store data efficiently
and such that it can be read and written to by more
than just one programming language, so universally.
Also, make sure it is easy to scale, etc.



Imperative Coding:
In an imperative variant you tell the code
how to do the instructions to get what you want.
Example: Python and Java.

Declarative Coding:
In a declarative variant you explain the code
what it is that you want it to get you.
Example: Maude, SQL.



Databasesystem or DBMS for short:
Is a program that allows interacting with the database,
like a user interface (UI). This is the tool that you
use to write to or extract information from the database.

Metadata:
This represents the structure of the database.
So what goes where and in what way, etc.



Types of databases (DBs):
1. Document DBs which focus on fast search of strings and substrings.
2. Key-Value Stores which are like HashMap in Java or JSON.
3. Graph DBs which are more about finding paths and fast.
4. Relational DBs are more like excel spreadhseets (a set of tuples).



A database is primarily made like a table. This table
is called a relation model. A relation model is made
of a signature (categories & data types), and relations
(data rows & collumns).

Here is an example: We create a database table which
we choose to call "Customers". Thus, our relation model
is now {Customers: (Ø, Ø)}.

Next we create a signature, which dictates the structure
of our data, to be {ID: int, Name: str, Birthdate: date}.
These are like titles for our collumns.

At last we now can add data in form of relations to our DB.
Remember that {Title: (Signature, Relation)}. So a new
relation must follow the structure of a signature. Example:
(ID: 5, Name: Justas Simutis, Birthdate: 19-12-2005).

Note: In case a part of data is missing we
simply use NULL as a placeholder instead.

Here is a full example:
{Customers:
  ({ID: int, Name: str, Birthdate: date},
   {
      (ID: 0, Name: "Justas Simutis", Birthdate: "19-12-2005"),
      (ID: 1, Name: "Julijus Simutis", Birthdate: "12-1-2007"),
      (ID: 2, Name: "Jogaila Simutis", Birthdate: "25-1-20011"),
      (ID: 3, Name: "Vilius Simutis", Birthdate: NULL)
    }
  )
}



In databases we often want to be able to split relation models
into multiple smaller relation models such that we don't have
to repeat the same information multiple times.

We also want to be able to identify each unique data row. The
identifier is called a "super key". It can be an ID, a username,
a combination of both name and birthdate, etc.

What we aim for is to not have too many super keys. We want the
least amount we need. Such keys we call "candidate keys". So,
whenever we have a combination of super keys such as ID, name,
and birthdate, it is not a candidate key, because we can remove
ID, or both name and birthdate and still have a candidate key.

There may be multiple candidate keys, the one the database uses
mostly (the main key) is called a "primary key". Usually we choose
the one that gets changed the least over time. The one that needs
least maintenance to keep up.

If we have identical primary key in multiple relation models, then
that key is called a "foreign key" ("fremmednøkkel"). How these
keys are related is often shown with arrows, here is an example:
Grade(Student) -> Student(Username).