Functional Dependence:
Say we got collumns A and B in our table filled with lots
of rows of data. Functional dependence is when we can get A
from B. So B is kind of like a primary key to identify A.
This is denoted as B -> A.

Note that primary key can consist of multiple collumns like B
and C. So if that were used instead to identify A we would
denote that as BC -> A, if we could also identify collumn D
with that, then we would denote it as BC -> AD.

So in those examples, A and D are both functionally dependent
on a combination of B and C. This does not work the other way
arround however, A and D can repeat, B and C can not (unique).

This is a piece of design that we can not achieve using ER modelling.
ER modelling shows the relations between tables, functional dependence
shows relations between collumns. Simple as that.

Also, note that this functional dependence, although it touches
the relations between collumns, these collumns might be in different
tables, so functional dependence is described on schema's level.
Reminder: Schema is our database, so a folder where we keep tables.



If we have corelations X → Y and Y → Z then we also have X → Z.
Therefore, X is the primary key that can be used to identify both
Y and Z. This can be used to identify better design models. Note
that X can also be a candidate key if more options exist.

So what can be identified by X is called its closure (be it direct
or not). X's closures are X itself, Y and Z denoted as X^+ = X, Y, Z.
In this case X is the primary key. That is because there are no more
options that we can use to identify all the collumns X, Y, and Z.

The operation "→" is transitive. However, it isn't commutative nor is it
associative. So X → Y is not the same as Y → X, and X → Y → Z is not the
same as X → Z → Y, but, X → Y and Y → Z can be merged into X → Y → Z.

Here is a concrete realization example from previous part.
| CREATE TABLE Students (
|     student_name text PRIMARY KEY,  -- PRIMARY KEY because Candidate key X
|     takes_course text NOT NULL,     -- NOT NULL because Y relation to Z
|     course_description text         -- No restrictions because none depend on Z
| );

We can easily determine which are a part of being a candidate key
or not by using this technique: If some collumn X is never occuring
on the right side of any → operator, then X must be a part of a
candidate key. If X never occurs on the left side, then it can not
be a candidate key. For the rest, simply check the possibilities.
Remember that there can be multiple candidate key combinations.

A great explanation which is way better than what I could write
for myself is to simply watch 07-02.mp4 from 14:24 to 18:31.