When creating databases we want to repeat the same data as rarely
as possible. This makes SELECT, UPDATE, and lots of other commands
much faster for SQL to handle since it has to go through less data.
To define formally what is a good and a bad database we use what's
called normalforms which are like rules for relation evaluation.
There are four normalforms: 1NF, 2NF, 3NF, and BCNF.

The higher the grade, the less frequently data is repeated in our
database. Often this means more tables and thus more joins that we
need to use and the more complicated the SEARCH query becomes and
such, but it also becomes faster (often times). Our whole database's
normalform grade is that of the lowest table's normalform grade.



1NF: Usually all the tables are considered to be in 1NF already.
If a table has repeating rows, then it is not in 1NF. Same for
if there is an array anywhere in it and such since tables are
supposed to be arrays themselves and not matrixes.

So it basically does not allow repetitions in our relation table
and does not allow turning a row into a table (through arrays).

2NF: First, satisfy 1NF. Next, there is no non-key attribute
(collumn) that depends only on a part of a candidate key.
Example: check 07-03.mp4 from 3:56 to 5:06.

So it basically does not allow partial dependencies in our table.

3NF: As long as it satisfies the previous 2NF, and all non-key
attributes depend only on a candidate key the relation table is
in third normalform. Example: 07-03.mp4 from 6:28 to 7:46.

So it basically does not allow transitive dependencies in our table.

BCNF: As long as NF3 is satisfied, and all attributes depend only
on one candidate key, then the relation table is in BCNF. Example:
from 8:46 to 10:11. Meme at: 8:30 - 8:45.

Use to idenfity edge-case scenarios for tables that are in 3NF.



To identify those normal forms you can use an algorithm, for that
check "Normalform Identification Algorithm.png".

You can decompose any realtion table of any normalform into multiple 
BCNF tables. Simply make sure that everything can come back together
using natural joins, if so then we don't lose any information.

For the algorithm, check "Converting Relation To BCNF.png".