--- Discrete Search Methods ---

1. Exhaustive Search:
   This algorithm checks for all the possible solutions, it
   is often slow and inneficient, but best used for tiny problems
   where AI is not even required because computers are fast. It
   is basically brute-forcing, but also sometimes considered an
   ultra simple AI (which I am not sure about, it maybe is AI, maybe).

2. Greedy Search:
   This is an algorithm type that when met with a choice A or B,
   if A is better than B (not necessarily in the long run, just
   short-term) then the option A is chosen and not the option B.

3. Hill Climbing:
   Imagine that our problem is just a bunch of hills where each
   peak is the local optimum, Hill Climbing starts out by checking
   its neighbours and then picks the best one to.

4. Simulated Annealing:
   What if you want to explore your options first? This is what
   simulated annealing does, it has what is called a temperature,
   the higher it is, the more it explores, and the more likely it is
   to accept the worse solutions. The exploration is highest at the
   start of the search and is gradually reduced for exploitation.
   So it explores and then converges to a solution.

Difference between Greedy Search and Hill Climbing:
The difference between a greedy search and a hill climbing is
that hill climbing is applied to continuous problems and graphs,
whilst greedy search applies to direct problems and graphs.



--- Continuous Seach methods ---

1. Gradient Ascent/Descent:
   This is an algorithm that basically looks at the slope of a
   function that we got and then moves by some tiny step x to then
   find the new slope. It is like derivation, but instead you get
   just the slope and not of a 2D function, but a ND function
   instead, so you derive over multiple variables, not just x.

   Whenever you want to maximize the function's output it is called
   a gradient ascent, when you minimize it is called a descent. The
   technique itself is called a gradient because of the slope.

   To calculate the slope of a function f(x, y), so ∇f(x, y) you
   basically derive each one separately, so if f(x, y) = x^2 + 3xy + y^2
   then you first derive f'(x, y) for x which is 2x + 3y and then for
   y which is 2y + 3x and then you get that ∇f(x, y) = (2x + 3y, 2y + 3x).
   So at the end you merge all the solutions you got into one vector.

