Cryptography:
This is a way to hide a message from unwanted
listeners/readers. It is a method that lets us
now that even if our message has been received
by bad actors, they won't be able to read it.

Note that encryption only ensures confidentiality
and not integrity, authenticity, traceability,
and reliability, only confidentiality.



Symmetrical Cryptography:
This method requires that the secret key is
already been delivered to the right people
before with success. Then it is as simple
as encrypt, send, decrypt.

Blockcipher is when a chunk of the message gets
encrypted with an encyrption key of fixed size.

Streamcipher is when the message gets encrypted
one letter at a time with a combination of
pseudo-random keys and XOR gates. Each message
has a unique pseudo-random key generated which
is done by using a secret key + a nonce. The
nonce is sent publicly to the receiver so it
may generate the same pseudo-random key and
decrypt the message (attackers can't because
they do not have the secret key which is seed).



Assymetrical Cryptography:
Here the user and the server both have 2 keys,
private and public. Both are just numbers which
can be used to both encrypt and decrypt data.

To set this up the public key is sent over an
open channel, this way the server now can send
data to the user freely without worries since
it is encrypted and only the user can decrypt it.

Same goes for a user that wishes to send data to
the server, user uses server's public key to
encrypt, and server decrypts with its own key.

However, in practice, to make it simplier, both
assymetrical and symmetrical methods are used
in combination as a hybrid. How? Not sure. Perhaps
they just use assymetrical way to send the
symmetrical keys to each other for speed.
(P.S. I was right, big brain moment)



Post-Quantum Cryptography:
Can solve at O(sqrt(n)) instead of O(n) speed
which is faster and does come in clutch. We will
therefore need to increase the bits used from 256
to 512 bits to stay safe at the same rate.



Terminology:
If we have text S transformed into cypher text C
by using encryption function E by a key k, then
the formal way to write it all would be:
- C = E(S, k), same for decryption.

Using XOR:
- S ⊕ k ≡ C,   S ⊕ k ⊕ k ≡ S
- C ⊕ k ≡ S,   C ⊕ k ⊕ k ≡ C
Here k can be used as a key to both
encrypt and decrypt the message S.
This is used in streamciphering.



Cryptography methods:
- Transposition: Shift text letter positions
- Substitution: Switch around the alphabet
  Weakness: letter frequency analysis and
  repetitive patterns, easy to brute force.