--- Hashing ---
The goal is to convert something from an arbitrary
size into something with a fixed size, typically
256 or 512 bits. It is also supposed to be hard
to reverse the hashing process and figure out
the input based on hash's output. The outputs must
also be unique for every input. So strong and Weak
Collision Resistance must be satisfied.

MD5 hashing is weak, so is SHA-1. SHA-2 is good
due to its increased size and is the most popular
today, but SHA-3 is the better one.

Hashing is typically used to compare file integrity
(by comparing), and to protect user passwords as
well as cryptocurrency, digital signatures, pseudo
random number generation, and much more.



--- Pepper & Salt ---
Because everyone was using hashes like SHA-256, and
because hash tables take at most O(log(n)) time to find
a match, what people would do is find someone who brute
forced a huge amount of passwords and their hashes and
into a huge map with hash as key and password as value.
As a hacker you would just download such a table and get
the password in seconds.

To prevent this before we hash the password, we add a
random string called salt. Even if people know the salt
they would still have to create their own map now (assuming
that the combination of password and salt is not in the
rainbow table already, so choose good salts boys) which
is the same as hacking the password itself (takes days
for passwords of length 8 or more I think, depends on
what rules are applied).

Salt is also random for each user so that if one dude for
some stupid reason leaks his hash and password, the other
people's passwords won't be leaked since salts are different.
So anyways, we store a salt close to hashed password in the DB.

Then there is peppering which is a hard coded random constant
that is also added before hash function is applied. Since it
is not in the database, hackers must go through code (assuming
they got access to it) and find this constant when the DB got
hacked. But that one might also be in the rainbow table, so make
it big and unique. Again, note that unlike salt, it is the same
for each user and must be hidden well outside the database.



--- Conclusion ---
Hashing is all about reliablity. It can be used in form of
passwords to authenticate a user (it may be compromised tho).
If one is compromised, the other one isn't and that is what
makes hashing a reliable data storage medium.