There is a lot of stuff that we actually do
in practice instead. Asymmetrical is the way
to go, but it is slowest and most impractical.

Why use 4 keys when you can use 2 that are the
same? That is why we first do an asymmetrical
method just to send the symmetrical keys safely.
Boom, problem solved (hybrid method).

However, the amount of keys each pc and server
must have went from 2n(n - 1) to n(n - 1). Still
bad, which is why we instead create a root which
uses an asymmetrical method and acts as interpreter.

Now the computers don't need to keep track of it
all individually, only the server has to which
simplifies it all a ton. Here it goes:

All users have their own private keys like usual.
And all of them send their public keys to the root.
The root sends its public key to all the users and
has its own private key as well. The setup is done.

Now, the users use the root's public key to encrypt
data and send it to the root (only 1 key was needed).
The root then decrypts it using its private key, and
encrypts it back but this time with the second user's
public key that should get the data from first user.
And then sends it, done. Data received and authenticly.

Thus, all users need O(1) distributions (just the root),
and root O(n) for lots of public keys to keep track of.
This method is called PKI (Public-Key Infrastructure).



By the way, since there is only 1 key, the root public
key, the message sending must be verified for authenticity.
How else would we know who sent it? The target the message
is sent to is not done through specifying the target user's
public key though, it actually depends on the application
like @gmail.com for Gmail, etc.

Anyways, if the hacker were to compromise the public key data
in the database, it would wreak havoc on the whole system. Now
since the public key can be replaced to the hacker's key, it
would grant him the power to make only his messages authentic,
and only him to be able to decrypt all that are sent because
his is now the new "authentic" key that the root system accepts.

Alice - user 1, Bob - user 2, Eve - hacker. All in all, since
Eve has replaced Alice's public key with its own in the root,
Alice lost ability to send message to Bob since it is no longer
authentic. All data that is now sent from Bob to Alice is now
sent to Eve instead with Eve's public key as well.

This setup causes Man in the Middle Attack to be possible, since
if Eve stores Alice's public key, Eve can now receive and decrypt
messages that Bob aimed to send Alice. Then, make a duplicate of it,
and encrypt it with Alice's public key. Finally, Eve sends the
duplicate message to Alice. Masking traces is still needed such as
IPv4, and perhaps much more that I am currently unaware of.

Eve can also control what messages are actually duplicated and sent
as well as be able to edit them herself by adding suspicious links.
Although like I said, making it authentic as if the server sent it
is a whole another trouble I am not sure how is tackled.



Also, check out X509 Official Key Certificates picture
for more details on what signatures require to be valid.

Signatures require authority allowance. What authority?
Not sure. First is Root-CA which grants Rot Certificates.
These certificates are self signed by some browser or idk.

Anyways, then there is Inbetween CA which is signed and
certified by a Root-CA key. Why it exists? Again, not sure...

Lastly there is Subject (User, Website) which generates
a Subject Certificate which work with the key that CA has.



P.S. This is used as a way to show the users that the site
is secure denoted by HTTPS. HTTPS is using TLS to be secure
which is where certificates come into action. They are used
in TLS which verifies that the website is indeed an HTTPS.

HTTP means that the communication channel is not encrypted
or the website is not to be trusted yet. It is totally open
and anyone can get hold of what you are sending over internet.

It is CA and Root-CA that are seen as trusted, especially when
multiple are acquired. CAs are given out by browsers, and Root-CA
by governments to browsers (maybe more but I am not sure there).
CAs are given to websites since they are the ones that store lots
of public keys and are responsible for safe connection.

Lastly, Subject Certificates are created by Users and Servers to
ensure authenticity. Whether they are to be trusted is decided
by CAs that are possessed. And for CAs it is Root-CAs. This system
doesn't guarantee trust, but it does guarantee authenticity.



To sum it all up, digital certificates ensure authenticity and
integrity by making sure that the data was not tampered with.

We also got MAC addresses which are basically labels to tell
the sender which device the data was sent from. Note that it
is about traceability and not integrity or authenticity.

However, do not confuse MAC Address and MAC. MAC is like a
digital signature, the difference is the key used. DigSig
uses private key to sign and public to verify, MAC uses
symmetrical keys to voth sign and verify, that's it.