--- IPC - Inter Process Communication ---
Different processes might want to communicate with one another, kinda like clients and servers in multiplayer games.
There are 2 types of communication that they can have, direct and indirect. With direct, client A must specify which
client X it sends data to. Client X must specify which client it must receive the data from, i.e. client A. That is
because the buffer may be full with other clients and other data, so we want to select what is useful and not what
isn't. Direct communication allows for one-to-many connections (sent by one, received by many). As for indirect
communication, it allows for many-to-many connections (sent by many, received my many). This is done by having a
host server of sorts that manages the client connections and the data they can access (processes request data and
send data to that server themselves). In direct communication, both the sender and the receiver must have buffers
(temporary storage until data is processed) set up. In the indirect communication, there is only 1 buffer and it is
the server or the "mailbox" as described in the presentation.

The servers, i.e. "mailboxes", have the information received stored in a FIFO data structure. Note that we have to
address who is supposed to be the receiver, so we get a matrix: Insert data by rows which are sorted in FIFO order.
When the receiver looks at the server and finds the information type it was looking for, it is taken out of that
receiver's buffer (from FIFO row in matrix). The data itself is of a custom struct type we define which consists
of a "long" type and "char[] type". There are commands that use these structs to send and receive messages to and
from processes, "msgsnd()" and "msgrcv()" in C. For more detailed explanation check out the "C - Communication.png".

In our case, we don't consider the internet as a whole, for all we know it all could be local as well. In this case
it is local, all of it is happening only on your PC so processes can communicate between each other. There is no
difference in what must be achieved, the only thing that is different is security which does change how the data is
to be sent and received when working over networks. But in this case we got our OS managing it all with 0 security
issues making it simple and plain.

There is also something about pipes which I don't understand completely, so just check out the screenshot called
"Pipe Example.png". For now I can't figure out how it works, best to google and ask AI for some clarification.
I guess there is also a difference slide, so check that out for some help too "Mailboxes & Pipes.png".

There is also an another way to communicate and that is through shared memory. It works by assigning some space for
this memory in RAM (a frame), and the processes that share it have a virtual memory address in their pages pointing
to that frame (the start of this shared memory) in RAM. So the virtual memory treats shared memory as being part of
the process, when in reality it is not truly isolated. This means that multiple virtual addresses that point to the
same physical address can have their present bits set to 1 (i.e. that the address is loaded). When unloading the
frame (that physical address) we cascade set all the present bits within all those virtual addresses to 0, but of
course we have a data structure that does it fast and not just check all the virtual addresses in existence to see
if they point to this or some other physical address (and is loaded). Getting access to this shared memory is easy
and is not regulated, so if there is an application that launches processes X and Y which share a memory, I can
create a separate application which creates a process Z granting me direct control of the shared memory between X
and Y, even if the application didn't intend to give me any through its user interface. Kind of like creating a
Cheat Engine, but usually these applications and games act as a single isolated process, so what the Cheat Engine
actually does is just scanning all of RAM and finding addresses that most likely represent the game data (based on
value changes during game run time).