--- Packets & "Switching" ---
Whenever we want to send data we split it up into packets of some fixed size (measured in bytes). The reason behind
it is that in Wi-Fi for example the radio waves interfere with each other thus only one or few connections can be
up at a time due to this limitation. Thus each connection gets its fair share of bytes it can send once its turn
arrives (that is fairness). With ethernet cables connected between the two devices this is not necessary (legacy
protocol when Bus topology was in use), but it stayed that way and ethernet cables thus also use packets. Frankly
almost everything does these days. 

Due to this fairness, the amount of bytes the connections get to send (packet size) is usually the limiter, whereas
the device's buffer size is the queue size. The maximum size that the packets can be sent over the network is
called the MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit). Some devices have small buffer capacity, some big, some find 1 KB MTU
to be fair, some 2 KB.

Splitting up data into packets means splitting up data into pieces that can be handled along the network path's
worst router (which is the system that is ultimately limiting our MTU). End systems such as phones and computers
usually adjust the packet size automatically themselves to smaller sizes if the message fails. It receives a
feedback if it does fail which has to be set up by the device adding a "Don't Fragment" flag to its packet. This
process is called a PMTUD (Path MTU Discovery). However, fragmentation is possible which is when the router that
couldn't fit the entire message into a single transmission of the size that it allows (fairness) and instead splits
it accross several finer packets the size of which it supports. It forwards these as if separate but with the same
destination and adds its own ordering flags for reconstruction.

Note that MTU is not the speed at which data is being sent, rather just at what size the data can be sent (packet
sizes). Bandwidth is actually what decides the speed, MTU is what decides the highest packet size without the need
of fragmentation which is costly and very inefficient. For that reason end devices often set a DF (Don't Fragment)
flag to True which causes some intermediary system along the network to send back the ICMP (Internet Control
Message Protocol) which essentially states that the packet size is too large for some intermediary system. The
correction to the packet size is often done automatically by the end device.

That said, back when we had telephone hubs where people would manually connect phone calls we had a system called
Circuit Switching in place. Back then we didn't have packets and everything was being delivered as a single stream
from one device right to another. These days we use Packet Switching which as you know is the use of packets where
intermediary devices store them in buffers and forward them automatically. This is what creates the opportunity of
boundless connections (unless the device's CPU and RAM are overwhelmed). In Circuit switching a part of all of the
devices along the path that are used to establish and keep up the connection between the two devices until it is
terminated. In Packet Switching the connection is more fluid being able to traverse different paths each time as
well as not taking up the intermediary device's space and time when there is no message to send/receive.

However, if a circuit switch is desired these days it can be done virtually (i.e. via packets but with certain
restrictions). Though the benefits that the circuit switching has aren't guaranteed but applied to the best of
the abilites which are: Minimal risk of congestion & constant transmission time. All of these are achieved by
reserving some space from all the routers along the path (i.e. requesting dedicated space) during the connection.
And since all the packets now traverse the same path it is possible to ensure that they arrive ordered. It also
allows more control overall and certain guarantees such as quality internet speed and connection maintenance
(i.e. ping, packet loss, and latency). However, as you can imagine it comes with its own drawbacks such as not
full bandwidth utilization. By the way, the establishment and maintenance protocol for it is called MPLS where
each router simply looks at the received from label and swaps it with the sended to label without the need to look
at any routing tables. These labels sit at the layer "2.5" in the OSI model, which really confuses me...

Lastly there is Message Switching which is often used with torrents. It is basically when all the packets are sent
to the next intermediary device, and once all the file's packets are received only then can the next intermediary
device sent it to the next one. So the whole thing is sent as a whole through the same path in unity. Also, while
we are on the topic, the way VPN works is similar to the usual routing. Simply put, it is an end device which acts
as an intermediary one, simply forwarding the messages back and forth without the receiver server knowing who the
message is originally from (though it does not apply such a restriction to its users). And since VPN servers are
well-known, Netflix's servers for example know that some user is using a VPN, but who it is using it exactly it
can't know. Same goes for intermediary devices between the user and the VPN server, these routers know that the
user uses a VPN, but what for they don't know. As long as the VPN doesn't get hacked or something like that...
Note that for a VPN to know where to forward the message to, the user's end-system encapsulates the original
message, meaning that the whole packet it would have sent to the Netflix's server is the level 7 application DATA
part including all the headers. So we got [IP Header, TCP Header, HTTP Header, PH, DATA B] where DATA B is the
[IP Header, TCP Header, HTTP Header, PH, DATA A] where DATA A is the actual DATA that it wanted to send to Netflix.
Also, Onion Browser basically does the same as the VPN, but the amount of encapsulations is much larger, and they
are also done by the users that use the browser (such is the agreement of using the browser I believe).



--- Transport Protocols ---
UDP is faster than TCP, but has higher packet loss and duplication rates. It is often used in Gaming where latency
is more important, and video conferences where it isn't that critical. Video streaming is also more desirable due
to speed, ease of use, better scalability, less memory usage, and less loads on their servers. Something only UDP
can do is broadcasting which the TCP can not, such as finding out which servers exist and how to work with them
(port expecting BOOTP protocol). Note that UDP's packets or "datagrams" come unordered, if order is significant
like watching a YouTube video or a stream with a 5 second delay, then the usually way to solve it is to send the
future bits of the video (assuming you won't pause) and once they are the application orders them before they are
shown to you. Also check out "UDP Connection Type.png" for more.

TCP is much more versatile however and offers many more choices and flexibility, though some stuff it may never be
able to do and it is also slower and less efficient due to its complexity and size. Once TCP sent some packets or
"messages" to the receiver it waits a few milliseconds for a response in case some packets were lost. If not
response arrive or an acknowledgment arrives then the next bunch of packets is sent, and if some packets were lost
then it resends them and waits a bit again. If the receiver has noticed that some packets are missing it will let
the sender know and wait for the rest to arrive before it continues working with them. Note that the packets arrive
ordered as well.

TCP is Fully Duplex, meaning that once the connection is established end system A can send messages to and receive
them from end system B that it connected with. TCP is a connection only between two endpoints (point-to-point), so
there can't be a third end system connected to the other two via the same connection that they have, only if a
separate one between each one is done (i.e. to achieve that full mesh like connection will have to be achieved).
Exactly how TCP establishes a connection you can check out in "TCP State Machine.png" which is used on both user
and client side. Note that the TCP always starts in the "CLOSED" state, "SYN" is a synchronization request, "ACK"
is accepting the request, "FIN" is termination request, whilst "Recv" and "Send" are events & actions.

In the "IP & TCP Headers.png" you can see that the TCP header has a piggyback acknowledgement section which is
basically the sequence number of the next packet that it expects to receive. It is used to keep track of what
packets and in what sequence the other side has received and which ones it needs (in case some weren't delivered
which does happen, that is what UDP lacks, as well as the order...). So if receiver got packets of sequence 1,
2, 4, and 5, but not 3, then it will send a message to the sender that the latest one it received is 2 which will
prompt it to send 3, as well as resend 4 and 5. Of course both sides may not deliver their messages and thus never
get a response, so to fix that there is a timeout on how long they wait for the response to their message which
is the RTT (Round-Trip Time), lookup the terminology section below for more on it. This may happen to an ACK too,
which will prompt the sender to send a duplicate, this is also handled by the TCP protocol (to ignore it that is
and resend its acknowledgement too, since it was lost). For timeout examples check out "TCP Timeouts.png". Of
course the timeout must be larger than the RTT but not too big in order to optimize the communication efficiency:
"Estimating RTT.png". This RTT is computed and averaged as the communication is going on, starting off with poor
efficiency but high reliability (i.e. assuming high RTT I believe).



--- Terminology ---
Bandwidth has 2 definitions: First is the radio wave frequency that the modems use which is measured in Hz. The
second one is however more important which is what the course typically refers to, and that is: The rate at which
data can be transferred between the two end/intermediate systems measured in bits per second.

Sometimes we talk about nominal bandwidth which is like the theoretical bandwidth that the two systems handle
(because in practice it is always slightly less due to "innefficiencies", which is what regular bandwidth is.
Available bandwidth is the amount of bandwidth that the application can use right now (so nominal bandwidth -
bandwidth that is currently in use). Lastly there is bottleneck bandwidth which is the smallest nominal bandwidth
(i.e. the min) of the whole path. Maybe you remember how routers choose the path to forward the message, and how
they choose the path that is not only the fastest but also the one that can handle the message's size, well that
is what bottleneck bandwidth is.

There is also throughput and goodput. Throughput is the rate at which data is received by a system (including
headers for various layer steps, error checking data, etc.), whilst goodput is only the DATA part that the
application itself cares about that is received (so just the size if the layer 7 received by the application).

Lastly we got Propagation Delay which is the time it takes for a single bit to arrive from sender to receiver.
Then there is Latency which is Propagation Delay + Message Size / Bottleneck Bandwidth + Queuing Delay (total
waiting time during intermediary steps) + Processing Delay (total time it took processing the message, also
done by the intermediary steps). If Latency is like velocity, then Jitter is like acceleration. Jitter is the
difference between the latencies basically (i.e. how volatile it is). End-to-End Delay depends on the layer, but
basically if it is layer 7 then it is the time it takes for a message to be received by the aplication after it
is sent by an application (i.e. latency), and if it is a layer 3 for example then it is the time between the next
two routers that is measured (i.e. latency between the next two routers where layer 3 is first used). I hope it
is clear enough with these examples. Then there is Round-Trip Time (RTT) which is basically the latency between
a system A the sender and a system B the receiver, plus one more between B and A (i.e. the response).



--- TCP Flow Control ---
If the sender is sending packets too fast such that the receiver can't handle them in time there are algorithms
to solve this issue (TCP only because that is the protocol that is "reliable"). Remember that the issue is not
only because the receiver's hardware is just that bad, but it might simply be a very popular server that handles
thousands of senders all at once, just a reminder...

1. Stop-and-Wait: Basically all the packets are sent one by one where before sending the next one the sender waits
   for an ACK from the receiver. Due to sequence numbers and piggyback acknowledgement we can distinguish whether
   it is the ACK or the packet that was lost (if it was) and easily resolve this issue by sending a duplicate.
   The drawback is the wait for acknowledgement or a packet which is basically the same as slowing down the
   download speed by A LOT. Like instead of 1 GB/s you got 40 MB/s (depends on the routing distance between the
   sender and receiver, but about a 25x decrease if sending something like 8 KB packets).

2. Sliding Window is a family of 3 similar algorithms (same core idea, used in different circumstances): The core
   idea is basically instead of sending a single packet like in the Stop-and-Wait algorithm, you send a bunch,
   and then wait for a bunch of responses. The amount is agreed upon before-hand, and once one out of the
   bunch is received, the receiver instantly sends an acknowledgement for that one only as well as expecting the
   same amount (the bunch amount) of packets to receive. So the amount to receive expected doesn't change, and
   the acknowledgements are sent for each one. Think of the bunch amount as being the amount that the receiver
   can handle simultaneously (though it may vary based on the amount that was agreed upon). Sender has a similar
   one where it moves on to the next ones once the acknowledgement for them was received.
  
   By the way, these sequence numbers (and piggyback numbers too) can wrap (buffer overflow), both account for
   that and thus the packet sending can theoretically go indefinitely due to this "feature and not a bug". Due to
   this we got to keep track of the oldest one that is not acknowledged for in case of a wrap around or loss. All
   of this tracking is solved by simply keeping track of the Lower Bound (LB) which is the highest sequence that
   we got ACK response for, and Upper Bound (UB) which is the highest sequence that was sent out. We also use the
   Window Size (WS, i.e. the bunch amount) with LB and UB to know when it wrapped around and how many more can
   be sent (or how many are expected to be received, depends on who is the sender/receiver).

- Go-Back-N: Is a variant of the sliding window where once a packet like #1 is received, it sends an ACK for it.
  But if some packet is lost like packet #2, then the receiver simply ignores the packets #3+ that it receives
  and simply waits for the sender to timeout packet #2 and resend the next bunch of packets #2+.

- Selective Repeat: However, we may also instead of ignoring the next bunch, keep it in the buffer. So if we
  received #1 and #3 but not #2, then we send ACK #1 twice which tells the sender at first that it can continue
  and send the next packet #4 (the second ACK #1 hasn't arrived yet). The next ACK #1s that arrive are ignored,
  because it already received one, and since ACK #2 never arrives the timeout is triggered and it resends the
  packet #2. Though I don't understand how by receiving a second ACK #1 it assumes that it received packet #3.
  In this specific example where WS = 3 it is determinable, but what if WS = 4? By getting the second ACK #1
  we can't know if it is packet #3 or packet #4 that was delivered successfully (though if we got a third ACK #1
  then we can, but since we didn't get it yet, and might never get it, we can't know that). P.S. They mention
  this and explicitly say that it works for when only 1 packet is lost (duh...). This also means that WS can't be
  more than the half of what both could actually handle (i.e. at most a half of the potentially maximum WS).

- Credit Mechanism: A server for example or a router may need to handle multiple sliding window connections. So,
  we designate each connection some amount of buffers. The more space designated the bigger the window size can
  be. This allows the receiver to set the window size to whatever it can handle which is measured in "CREDIT"s.
  Once the buffers are full, the "CREDIT"s count becomes 0 and the sender is blocked. High throughput means
  lots of buffers are designated to a sender, low means little amount of buffers designated. So yeah, if the
  sender requests like 12 buffers, but the receiver can only handle 4, then 4 is what the sender gets. It is
  always the minimum between the two that is chosen such that both can handle their part. In case a packet gets
  lost we always together with acknowledgement also send the number of credits that is left to the sender. If
  the credits are at 0, then the sender just waits until we (the receiver) send another ACK with updated credit
  count (should be done once the credits count is more than 0, otherwise there is no point...). P.S. This
  Credit Mechanism still uses either Go-Back-N or Selective Repeat.



--- TCP Congestion Control ---
Flow control is about solving end-to-end connections such that the receiver is not overwhelmed with the all the
data that is being sent to it. Both systems agree on how much they can handle to fix that. Congestion control on
the other hand is about not overwhelming the whole network (so all the point-to-point connections of the whole
path going from sender to receiver) with too much data. There are 2 types of congestion:
1. Persistent Congestion - The router stays congested for a long period of time due to too much traffic going
   through it which it must process for various reasons (DDOS attacks often show it the most).
2. Transient Congestion - The router is temporarily overloaded with data, often due to burstiness. This is
   basically when the sending rate is higher than what the router can handle, but doesn't completely overfill
   its buffers yet, so this simply creates varying and non-persistent delays which aren't as bad as in the
   persistent congestion once the buffers fully fill up.

Now then, the idea for congestion control is simple: If there is packet loss, then it most likely is due to
congestion of a bottleneck, in which case the end systems slow down the rate at which they send the packets (each
one checks for that and controls it individually, intermediate systems do absolutely nothing about it), so the
end-systems must unite to achieve this. This is because eveyone working together is overall more efficient rather
than having each one for themselves due to congestion creating delays and thus latency (bad for everyone, and the
goal here is to use the intermediary-systems as efficiently as possible). Anyways, if there is no packet loss then
the sending rate can be increased. AIMD - Is the rate at which the sending is increased/decreased. It is Additively
Increased, and if a congestion occurs then it Multiplicatively Decreases the sending rate, thus explaining its
name. As for the TCP algorithms used today (TCP is always in development) check out the "TCP Versions.png" where
green ones are the relevant ones used today, and the red-bordered are those that don't fix the congestion problem.

Now let's have a look at more terminology:
1. Congestion Window (cwnd) - This is a term for the largest amount of data (of a connection) that can be in a
   network at a time, i.e. in flight meaning sent but not yet acknowledged, or sendable. Not sure what that means
   but I guess it is referring to the WS, i.e. Window Size, just more general I think... To figure out the cwnd we
   test it by simply sending data as fast as possible with cwnd as large as possible. If cwnd is too large we do
   AIAD (additive-increase, additive-decrease) or AIMD to find the sweet spot (depends on TCP version), but these
   are the simpliest.

2. Maximum Segment Size (MSS) - The maximum amount of bytes that the sender can send in a single packet. A TCP
   Header is at most 60 bytes (with several options and such), and at the minimum 20 bytes in size (essentials).

3. Sending Rate - Basically, sending rate = cwnd / RTT, because cwnd is the max amount of bytes that can be in
   flight, and after RTT time has passed all of those that were in flight are acknowledged for (most likely).
   So sending rate is the number of bytes that can be in flight, for the number of packets do cwnd / MSS.

TCP Fairness is something that is achieved if the congestion control is followed by each end-system that uses the
bottlenecked intermediary-system. If there are N TCP streams (i.e. each TCP connection between end-to-end devices)
going through a bottleneck (worst router) with C as the bottleneck's total bandwidth, then each of these streams
get their fair share of bandwidth, so C/N of the total sending rate. We mention bottleneck here specifically
because that is where we are going to encounter persistent congestion, and if each end-system follows the TCP's
congestion resolution protocol then all will eventually converge to a point where each one gets their equal share
of attention from the router. The more similar the RTT between these end-systems is, the more fair it becomes in
practice, because it usually always fluctuates to try and adjust for the current demand that the bottleneck
experiences which varies of course.

Note that TCP Fairness is not the same as the MTU fairness described before. Because the router accepts all the
messages and forwards all of them without discriminating. So if one end-device sends more than the other, it will
be accepted more frequently (once the buffer is full), and there will be more of it (once the bandwidth is full),
thus that device message's packets will have a higher sending rate than the rest (not fair to the rest of devices).
MTU fairness is about the whole message being split into packets such that everyone's messages get their fair
share of forwarding. TCP fairness is about everyone's packets being picked to forward at the same fair rate.

For an example of some of the congestion resolution protocols check out "CWND & TCP New-Reno Example" which covers
both how cwnd is being adjusted and how it is done by the TCP New-Reno version which uses AIMD in the congestion
normalization phase. CUBIC has an algorithm for the increase and decrease of cwnd as follows: It uses slow start
(i.e. exponential growth) to find out the congestion point. Once the threshold is crossed the cwnd is updated
as follows: "W(t) = C * (t - K)^3 + W" where W(t) is the current cwnd that we test and apply, C is some linear
growth multiplier we choose, t is the time elapsed since the previous congestion decrease that we had to do, K is
the time it took to reach the W, and W itself is the previous congestion limit. So K is basically the previous
W(t)'s time t, i.e. W's time t. TCP Cubic is better for long-range connections where huge fiber optic cables are
used, it stays stable longer but also makes it harder for new streams to get their fair share sooner due to this
which is more of an issue if used in small capacity intermediary-systems.



--- New Protocol - QUIC ---
QUIC is a new layer 4 protocol which is done to improve the TLS (security layer of TCP) as well as other TCP's
problems which you can check out in the "QUIC is Better than TCP.png" and to make UDP be able to order the
packets. The whole protocol can be checked out in the "QUIC Protocol.png". For the congestion control it uses BBR which is its own method.

The BBR's start is the same (slow start - exponential growth). Now the later phase is different because the
philosophy changes here slightly. In New-Reno and Cubic the reaction was too late, by the time the TCP takes
measures against congestion it is already severely congested. BBR instead tries to measure the path's limitations
(constantly updating it) and predicts how much data it may send. It measures the bottleneck's bandwidth, as well
as the smallest RTT during the time that it is uncongested (RTTprop). The maximum that the intermediary system can
handle is the BDP = Bottleneck's Bandwidth * Round-Trip Time, or BDP = BB * RTT for short. This optimal BDP is
what the BBR is trying to measure constantly to figure out how much it may send.

So the first phase is the slow start, then to uncongest the IS it stops sending and waits until RTT = RTTprop. The
second phase repeats continuously. Out of 8 cwnds sent, one is sent at 1.25x BB rate to check if more bandwidth is
available, another is at 0.75x BB rate to uncongest the first packet's probing, and the other 6 are sent at the
optimal 1x BB rate. Each 8th being the probing one is the frequency that can be tuned, the rest follow the normal
behaviour. Also, every like 10 seconds BBR recalibrates the RTT by sending a very small cwnd (about 4 packets in
size) which drains some of the queueing (if there is any) and gets us the precise update to the current RTprop, and
this draining lasts about 200 miliseconds before returning to the normal second phase behaviour.