--- Malware Detection ---
Malicious programs are detected mainly in 4 ways:

First, some malware have code structures that are
totally unique which are exposed once installed.
Some are simple copies of the original malware.
These patterns are checked through a database.

The database that is used often is MITRE in USA,
it is a CVE (Common Vulnerability Enumeration)
where each malware is registered with unique CVE-ID.

Second method is inspecting program's code to
check if it tries to access or modify system files
or gain access or move itself to private folders.
Really anything that is suspicious to do.

Third method is the same as second, except for we
check during runtime, whilst the program is still
active to see if anything weird is happening (again).

There is also a fourth one where AI is being used
to analyze and assess whether it is a virus or not,
but this is quite new and who knows how well it is.



--- Malware Database ---
Once the malware gets into the device successfully,
there exists an organization in USA called NIST which
is an NVD (National Vulnerability Database). Here,
the known malware from CVE are analyzed and instructions
are created on how to get rid of them and/or how to
handle the consequences that are caused by it.

There is also program or something like that named CVSS
which creates a report (or has a database of evaluations,
idk) which informs of the risk level that the malware
has. For more on risks check Chapter 7.



--- Buffer Overflow ---
For a detailed example check out the video on it named
"Buffer Overflow - Practical Example.mp4". In short, we
find out where the return pointer is and rewrite it with
something different such as launching a console. If the
program had admin rights or you could speak to database,
etc. through the program only, then so will the console.

There are 6 methods to prevent this (or make it harder).
1. No Execute (NX): Disable the ability to rewrite stacks.
   Note: Stacks is where local variables and return data is.
2. Stack Canaries: A random value that is stored some place
   else which checks whether data was rewritten or not.
3. ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization): Randomizes
   where return pointers and such are saved in memory.
4. Shadow Stack: Have a duplicate dummy stack whose purpose
   is to simply be read to check if stack was overwritten.
5. Use more safe coding languages that don't give enough
   control for the coder/user or statistical analysis.
6. Get gud (Professor comment: Built-in security / DevSecOps)