--- Systems ---
With computers there is obviously the IOs (Inputs / Outputs),
there is memory (RAM, DRAM, etc.), disk (SSD, HDD, etc.),
Micro processors and such (CPU, GPU, etc.), LAN-Network and
Wi-Fi, but all of that we already know a bunch about.

However, there is also UEFI also known as Bios, and TPM.
UEFI is responsible for lauching the OS and setting up
everything when pc is launched (VMs and secure boot). TPM
is also responsible for secure boot, but it is also doing
disk encryption, and proves to other connected servers
that the device can be trusted e.g. it has no malware.

There is also something called TEE (Trusted Execution
Environment) which basically makes sure that the machine
code inside the pc are "protected", which means that they
definitely can not be altered after one's desires. One such
example is Intel SGX (Software Guard Extension).

There are also devices that can detect an attacker attempt
to get some classified data such as private encryption keys
physically which then forces the device to auto-delete all
of those keys forever. IBM 4765 Secure Coprocessor (example).

You can also check out how the UEFI starts the computer.
For that, check out "UEFI Start.png" file which illustrates
everything perfectly (and I was too lazy to copy it).



--- Rings ---
You already know that there are rings of privilige, ring
3 is used for applications, rings 2 and 1 aren't really
used at all, ring 0 is kernel level (Total control over
CPU operations available and OS, higher access than admin),
ring -1 is a VM (Virtual Machine, Hypervisor), UEFI is -2.

Also, in a CPU there are cores (which are micro-processors)
and modern CPUs (after 2015) now also include a small built
in microcontroller called IME (Intel Management Engine)
which handles system updates, power control, and system
management for enterprise IT. What is interesting is that
it works even when pc is powered off as long as the device
is plugged in (has access to electricity) and it also has
its own operative system called MINIX which means that it
sits at ring level -3. Since it manages enterprise IT, it
has access to internet and it also has access to the whole
device as well which is a huge deal. But I am not sure if
TPM (encryption device found inside your PC) is still a
problem. I suspect that it isn't though. I mean it is used
by IT personel in enterprises to update stuff and manage
stuff on devices remotely (even turning the pc on remotely
by what's called a Wake-on-LAN), so this access makes sense.



--- VM (Virtual Machine) ---
Virtual machines are on a ring level -1 which means that it
is in control over the operating system that is simulated in
it (and all the apps and files that are there).

There are 2 VM types, native and host-based. Native means that
first there is UEFI that runs first, then the VM Hypermode
which consists of multiple VMs each with their own OS and apps.
For example Windows's Hyper-V. Host-based is when the system has
a native OS, and from that OS we create the VM Hypermode. Thus,
the native OS is above the VM Hypermode in this scenario, but
the Systems and OS simulated on the VM Hypermode are not (duh).

There is also docker which creates a VM for a single app where
only the bare minimum functionalities for the app to work exist.
I've already used docker, and created a linux Host-based VM.
Also, note that when you log in as different users, you are
kind of using the native VM or something like that I think.