--- Memory Allocation & Management Algorithms ---
Processes get memory allocated to some place in memory. There are three popular methods on how to decide how much
memory can be allocated, first is called fixed or static partitioning which is where the process gets some pre-
determined amount of memory in a single slot, 8MB slot for a process that requires 3MB. This of course creates 5MB
of unused space which is called internal fragmentation: Allocated space not used by the process.

This is bad if we want to run a process that is larger than the largest slot we got. This is where the second
method comes in called dynamic partitioning. There we allocate the exact amount of memory space to the process as
we need. The problem with that is that once the process is done it creates a hole of that size which can not be
used by a process of bigger size, also known as external fragmentation: unused space between processes is too
small. To fix this we need to rearange memory addresses of all of the processes in memory, and it is really slow.
Restarting the PC is also a solution, but that is an even slower one.

The third method is basically splitting memory allocation space into 2 until it is exactly enough for a process to
work or can't be split further. Whenever the process is done we merge all the space we can with the one that was
released until it becomes the highest factor of 2 it can be. This method is called the Buddy system.

There is also a method called Segmentation which is where the process is split into parts when possible as to not
overlap with other processes, and it gives more control over what segments are read-only, or can be written to,
etc. The only thing that we need to do is to just keep track of when these parts end and start, but that is not
OS's problem anymore, that is compiler's (I think). It basically adds an extra step to the way address lookup
works, because now we also have to find the segment that the address we are looking for is in. Note that this is
not enough on its own, it does not assign how much memory the process or its parts are allowed to use. However, it
is often implemented as a dynamic partitioning, so the same thing but with segments. The only reason to use
segmentation is for memory security reasons.

External fragmentation caused by segmentation is bad and its size is uncontrollable, so we did what we could do
best and decided to control it as best as we could by shifting towards Paging which causes internal fragmentation
instead. The idea is the same as with static partitioning, but since we got segmentation implemented we might as
well apply the same logic to the segments. We got pages which are the same as these slots in static partitioning,
but their sizes are often miniscule (4KB). Each segment gets N amount of pages, and each segment is a part of a
process. Segments are there for memory security reasons, and pages are there to minimize fragmentation. Pages are
scattered all around the memory, but we got address lookup which fixes this issue (at a cost of extra CPU power).

--- Virtual Memory ---
Physical memory is the type of memory that we can get fast, the memory that doesn't have to be "loaded in".
Specifically, we are talking about RAM. Disk or SSD is what makes virtual memory possible. Virtual memory is the
illusion of physical memory. Basically, whenever we want to load data in we might not have enough space in our
physical memory (RAM), so we load in as much as we can. Virtual memory is the illusion that all of it was loaded
into the physical memory, when in reality only some of it did. We do this because sometimes there just isn't enough
memory space, everything is relevant for all of the requested processes to work.

Anyways, here is how it works: When we have to get the data that we think we loaded in from SSD into RAM, we try
looking up the address. But if it was actually not loaded in (virtual memory lied), then we have to actually load
it in from the SSD into RAM. However, since RAM is full, we have to free up some memory that is supposedly
important, but we do it anyways to complete the current request since that takes priority. What we did is we
released some memory from RAM, and replaced its place with something that was needed for the current request. Yes,
the other process will need to load that released memory back in, but it was unavoidable to keep up with the
demand, and yes it is slow. So basically, in virtual memory we got addresses that overlap. Those that do, only one
of them can be loaded in at a time into the physical memory (RAM).

To do a memory lookup each page has a few bytes of memory allocated. Out of those bytes, some are the addresses
that point to a virtual page, and the rest are the pointers to the memory within the page. Then we use the virtual
page address and a primitive map (which has duplicate outputs) to get the physical page address. The map also
points out if that memory is already loaded in or not. If it is then we go to that physical address page + space
within the page and get the data from that memory.

If it isn't then we load it in, then we get what is called a "Page Fault". Handling page fault is a tough thing to
do. Because that means that there is a memory that is potentially in use right now by some process and we might not
be able to replace it, so we have to do a context-switch. Figuring it all out is expensive, and many algorithms
tackle it differently (moslty choosing which memory to release to make space for current one). Check out a
screenshot on it. As for the algorithm, the newest one that was implemented is called LRU - Least Recently Used, is
the one replaced.

However, sometimes LRU is really bad (extreme cases), and many algorithms have their own, so this is a tradeoff to
consider when programming. What is OS and apps made on it used for, how to minimize these extreme cases. Sometimes
OS have multiple implemented for various types of apps. There are 2 types in general: Block caching and Stream
caching. Block is basically when the OS thinks that data in memory is unrelated to each other. Stream predicts data
that are close to each other in memory to be likely related to each other.

For example, Block is bad when similar data is being released and loaded back into memory often, like if you are
rewatching a video or going back to review some parts of it, that is what Stream is good at and what it solves. The
algorithm for it is called L/MRP - Least/Most Relevant for Presentation. Sometimes, like when streaming a video
from some server on the internet, that server is likely running L/MRP. However, multiple users can stream at the
same time which is where the relevancy value of certain frames (data in memory) is combined into an average
"global" value. The downside is obviously the more complicated code and extra steps which could be unecessary
depending on what you need to do.

IC - Interval Caching is similar to L/MRP, the only difference is the global value that is being calculated,
because it actually gives extra points to the relevant data that is between the two currently active frames in
video streaming (or just data in memory, doesn't matter what it actually represents). So not just the average,
instead we calculate the interval (the distance between the two), and keep as many of the ones with the shortest
intervals as we can loaded in our RAM (or just physical memory).

Anyways, This was low scale system with a single lookup table. In reality of 32-bit systems we nest these tables.
To be specific, we got two of them. One which points to a another address in another table, and that one pointing
to the page. This takes us 20 bits, the other 9 are used to get the memory from that page, and the rest (3 bits)
are for security, like can it be accessed by a user (1st), can it be written to (2nd), and whether it is present
(3rd) or not - whatever that means.

Lastly there was some talk about how sending data was optimized from O(2n) copy time and O(2n) system calls to O(n)
copy time and O(n) system calls, up to O(0) copy time and O(1) system calls. Also, how context-switches were
avoided when coppying from application, and how the copied stuff wouldn't be temporarily saved separately. If you
are wondering, it was all solved by simply giving a pointer to that data skipping the security layer, the command
for that was something like "sendfile()", not sure what language, but probably C. Didn't bother much with that...