--- Personal Area Network (PAN) ---
A connection established directly between the end-systems. For example a USB-C connection between a keyboard and a
mouse, or a bluetooth connection between a phone and your wireless headphones. These aren't particularly fast, but
they often don't need to be.



--- Local Area Network (LAN) ---
Here we got a router which is the central part in it all. It uses DHCP to assign local IP addresses to each device
all of which go through the router to communicate. Router becomes the middle man. A router can connect to other
routers each of which have their own LAN. The routers below in hierarchy create what's called a sub-LAN. Router's
reach is often extended by a switch, a wireless access point, or a range extender and such... Devices connect via
ethernet cables and Wi-Fi. Think of it as connecting all the devices within a building.

There are also WLANs (Wireless Local Area Networks) which are the same as a local one, the difference being is the
fact that there are no ethernet cables connecting the devices or other wired types of connections. Mostly just
Wi-Fi (radio waves and such) and range extenders.



--- Campus Area Network (CAN) ---
Whenever an organization is quite large it might operate within multiple buildings, some of which could be further
apart. LANs ethernet cables are too slow, so we use fiber optic cables to connect the LANs between the buildings,
typically 1 - 5 kilometer range. So whenever we are talking about CANs we mean all of the LANs that the
organization has connected.



--- Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) ---
MANs, just like CANs, connect LANs. The difference is the scale and ownership. CANs are owned and controlled by
and for a single organization connecting buildings at most across a city. MANs connect the whole city and cities
across the whole country whilst also not owning any LANs or having any control over them. Its purpose is to
connect different organizations together within a country. They also often utilize fiber optic cables which are
often larger and faster than those seen connecting LANs in a CAN.



--- Wide Area Network (WAN) ---
This one is very similar to a MAN, the only difference is the scale. WAN connects countries even across an ocean.
Just like with MANs fiber optic cables are also used and scaled accordingly with the demand. In addition to that
satellites and telephone lines are also used sometimes to reach all parts of the globe.



--- Storage Area Network (SAN) ---
Unlike the network areas above, SAN is not about the scale but purpose. This is a dedicated network for servers
and data centers which store and retrieve into. For example, streaming services create these networks which are
dedicated to connecting users and sending each one video file data, like when you watch a Netflix show or a
YouTube video.



--- Virtual Private Network (VPN) ---
VPN is a server that creates an encrypted connection between your end device and its servers. Any messages or data
send and received first go through a VPN stripping your IP address and replacing it with its IP address (requires
the whole data to arrive first creating delays based on file size) which then forwards it as if their own. Thus
it acts as a middle man between you and the server. Websites know that you are using a VPN (because their servers
are well known), but they can't know where the original requests are coming from.

Similarly there is Onion Routing or TOR which is doing something similar. Instead of passing through a single
server like in a VPN, here we pass through many. Thus nobody knows who sent what since there is no central figure
that controls all these layers. In TOR Browser each router that connects to the browser assists others in this
endeavour making it impossible to know who is the receiver and the sender. Because even if you are the first one
to send or last to receive, the router that sent you the message or receive one from you can't know if you truly
are the last stop of the first one to have sent it.