--- Biometry ---
We already have talked about using biometry here and there, and so on.
But we never defined it clearly, basically it is something that can
be used to identify someone. There are 3 types, first is something that
you know, second is something that you have, third is something you do.

For example, passwords are something that you know, fingerprints is
something that you have, and the way you type on your keyboard is
something that you do. However, it is not always secure. Passwords
can be leaked, and your possessions (or you) might be stolen, AI
can analyze and simulate your actions, etc.

To create a biometrical system it must be 1: Something that everyone
has. 2: Something that everyone is different at. 3: Something that
can not be changed on its own without the system knowing that. 4:
Something that can be measured and differentiated reliably. 5:
Something that is easy and fast (can't have xray machines at home
and such, duh). 6: something people are willing to accept. and
lastly 7: something that is hard to fake / steal, etc.

Note that when choosing authentication method, make sure that it
is convenient and isn't costly because for example 2-factor
authentication code generation costs penies but it is used often
so much so that money is lost, alot of it in fact, so be vary.
This is usually where risk analysis comes in to check risk is
worth it or not (ROI, Return on Investment).



--- Reliability ---
When creating an authentication method we must always test whether
it is reliable. There must be many True Positives (e.g. actual
users get to access their accounts), many True Negatives (e.g.
fake users don't access user accounts) as well as little False
Positives (e.g. fakes can't access user accounts), and little
False Negative (e.g. actual users can't access their own accounts).



--- Regulations ---
There exists a popular classification and authentication standards
that are used which define how secure vs how costly the authentication
methods are (that they mention). Usually classified into 3 types, low,
substantial, and high guarantee (e.g. security and cost level).

SP 800-63-4 by NIST is the newest one (2025). Then there are also one
from eIDAS 2.0 from EU (2024). Also one from Norway called DigDir
which is from 2022 and is based on eIDAS 1.0. Note that although it
is outdated, small municipalities often prefer norwegian ones. And
then there is a very old one by ISO/IEC from 2013 named IS 29115
which is not used at all (especially because there are 4 levels where
the least secure level is never really used, lol).

Back to the best model there is by NIST from 2025, there are 3 levels.
1st one is normal authentication using passwords or other biometry
such as fingerprints or face id. 2nd is where 2FA (2 Factor Authentication)
comes into play as well as making sure passwords are hard to crack, and
that cryptographical methods used are strong and stuff like phishing
resistance are implemented. 3rd is the highest of them all which is where
stuff like ID-portals are used and/or legal contract are implemented.

Remember that all of this is to make sure that we are confident in
whether it is the actual user or the fake that is trying to log in.