--- Firewalls ---
So firewalls are their own devices (good ones at least). On
my computer I have a firewall software, that is a firewall as
well. But usually, when we put a firewall in our architecture
we mean separate devices whose sole purpose is to be a firewall.



--- IDS ---
These devices basically create fake ips that if pinged means
that someone is mapping or trying to hack into the system.
These devices monitor such activities and let IT personel
know if something like that is happening and such.

There are two IDS types, NIDS and HIDS. NIDS looks at the
local network (can be configured to look from inner firewall
into outer, but not the other way around), and looks for any
suspicious activity in networking like what I mentioned before.

HIDS is not a device on its own, but more like an additional
software that monitors anomaly changes in files and data.

There is also what's called an anomaly based IDS which uses
machine learning to then figure out what is normal and not
normal for a network or files to be happening instead of
creating rules on our own for this.



--- IPS ---
This is like a device similar to IDS, but it is more active
than passive. Whenever there is like a DOS or something
like that that starts happening, it must be dealt with fast.
IPS sees that and adds rules automatically to block unwanted
spam traffic and such.

It is not ideal though and can be used against the organization
that has it set up. Just spoof (fake ip address) and ping the
hell out of it so that every single ip address is now blocked
by the firewall and now no-one can access anything just what
a DOS attack was trying to achieve.



--- DMZ ---
Usually we have the outer firewall, and the inner firewall.
Outer firewall protects from DDOS attacks, and inner firewall
from hacks on employee's clients. After outer firewall we
have the DMZ which is not a device or anything real, just
a concept. It means that here we have the stuff we want
users to be able to access from the internet. Think
Eposts, website servers, DNS, and that's about it.



--- Honeypotting ---
This is like a trap, we create a vulnerable device on purpose
like a fake server outside the firewall and see what the
attacker was intending to do to it. Maybe the attacker will
give up if no valuable data is found, we will also get to
know more about intentions and such. We might even create
some sort of trap there, who knows? I sure don't.



--- Ports ---
Here are a bunch of ports I must know:
80 - HTTP: Unencrypted TCP, data transfer between website and server
443 - HTTPS: Encrypted TCP, data transfer between website and server
23 - Telnet: Unencrypted TCP, authorization and control between devices
22 - SSH: Encrypted TCP, authorization and control between devices
21 - FTP: Unencrypted TCP, file transfer between devices
3389 - RDP: Encrypted TCP, authorization and visual control between windows devices
53 - DNS: Unencrypted TCP, translates IP addresses into website links