--- Security Models ---
There are two types of models, one of them was popular before (and is
still in use today), and the other one is becoming popular and in use.
First one is Shell (Egg) model, and the second one is Layer (Onion) model.

Shell model is when we create a strong barrier (single point of break), so
if hacked everything would be exposed. Today an Onion model is used more
which is more like a bunch of small protection barriers instead. (This is
very vague explanation, but that is what was told). Probably refers to TOR.



--- Internet Reminder ---
First, open Internet.png and Datapacks.png, also read this. So, basically
the way internet works is its divided into 2 parts, local and global connections.
Local is where your home router comes in also known as LAN connections. Global
is where communication towers (with wires and wi-fi), overseas fiber cables,
sattelites, etc. come in also known as WAN connections.

So whenever you want to play on some server in game for example, first you
need to send data (like server join request, server join grant, receive server
player data, send your own player data, etc.). Whenever data is sent, only a
fraction of it is actual data, the rest are the instructions on where to go.
First, the App layer (game) registers data that must be sent, then a request
is added (application) which are the instructions on what the request wants (such
as joining a server for example in our example, lol the wording). Next, TCP/UDP
code added to establish a connection protocol method which is to be used or is
used. Then, comes the IP which is the address used by routers to know where to go.
Then there is the link layer which adds to what we are sending like MAC address
for faster transport between routers. Lastly comes the physical layer which is
when the data is sent and is traveling between the mediums (wires, satellites, etc.).

Note when the data travels between the mediums, it often arrives to other routers which
direct it further into the right direction. This means that the link is changing during
transport, but not the IP (the end destination) or anything above it. Whenever router
receives outside forwarding request (to get to its destination), the router directs it
to a general direction, so a router that knows better which often means a router that
is physically closer to the destination IP. This indicates a O(log(n)) time complexity,
so whenever you try to get into some website like youtube.com, it is often 10-15 hops away.
It is smaller than expected because there are also huge routing bases called ISPs which
are like the holy grail of all directions. There is a hierarchy for this in place.



--- TLS & MiTM (TLS Stripping) ---
Whenever data is sent over http, the data is sent in plain text. Think username, mail,
passwords, all the sensitive data that can be intercepted by MiTM (Man in The Middle)
attack. Https however, is when TLS 1.3 is used which uses cryptography to encrypt data
and secure a safe connection. TLS 1.3 is like a protocol to establish a connection.
Like I send my public key + signature, you send your public key + certificate, I decide
to trust you (or nah), and we done.

Reminder, signature is like used to check if you are who you seem to be, like in the
message is not copy-pasted or tampered with by someone else (integrity). Certificates
are like, here is an important someone that everyone trusts in who verified that I
can be trusted (my public key) as well and here is his signature to prove I have not
edited the public key or anything in this certificate.

You may wonder, why default to http instead of always using https? That is because early
websites didn't support https since it was "inconvenient and slow" those lazy bastards.
Today however, most websites support https. But then why is http still the default?
Because users are dumb and if https is not supported then users report the issue, think
the website is closed, etc. Why not detect this and send http request automatically?
Because we can't just detect it, errors might occur for many, many reasons, not just
https not being supported by the servers. And, even if we do that, this does not stop
MiTM attack, since the man in the middle can fake an error like that on purpose.

Solution? Have a list of websites that you know support https for sure. This is the
modern solution that best browsers use today (and now that I think of it, it's nice).

Also, note that the connection is temporary, meaning that once you leave the website
or such, the connection is severed, the symmetrical keys established during this
temporary communication forgotten, and therefore no previous messages from previous
visits to the website and such can be accessed, only the information shared in
the current connection you are in (if compromised of course). This is forward secrecy.

There is also a legal form for MiTM called TLS Inspection which is when the organizations
issuing the certificates want to see what is being sent over HTTPS connections so they
setup proxy gateways in between connections which issue their own valid certificates which
allows the gateways to inspect the contents keeping perceived integrity intact.



--- IPSec, VPN, and TOR ---
IPSec is like encrypting an IP address and adding another IP (which is not encrypted) on top
of it. Then, this second IP acts as the first IP which gets to destination A. A the one that
can decrypt the first IP and it then sends it to where the message was supposed to in the
first place. Basically, we let our message go through multiple other destinations before
getting to where we want so that in the meantime, no one can know where it originally came
from or where it was supposed to go (except for this case because there is only one shell
which is for A).

Anyways, this is the idea behind TOR (The Onion Router). We basically have like very many of
these ip addresses that are each sent to different destinations where they are decrypted and
sent again, and again, and again... you get the idea. In the end no one knows where it came
from for sure, and only one knows where it ended up for sure. TOR browser uses the clients
that have downloaded the app as one of the routing alternatives now. Everyone can go through
your router, but so can you (otherwise it could be mapped and scripts made to avoid premade
routes to figure out where ips come from).

This is also how VPNs work. Often used to trick location tracking by IP from services like
Netflix, but also as a general sender and receiver in some work environment (dual purpose).



--- SOC & NCSC ---
To be written...