--- Passkeys / FIDO / WebAuthn ---
There are lots of phishing websites that are copycats of actual
websites. For example, can you see which one of those links is
real? facebook.com or fаcebook.com. it was the first one because
the second one has a russian letter a in it which is not the same.

So, instead of having usernames and passwords to log into those
legit websites, we instead have a private and a public key pair
for each website stored on browser for example. So, whenever we
try to visit the legit facebook (domain is part of private key),
the website sends a random value that we got to sign with a
private key to make a signature which we then send for facebook
to verify that we are the real user.

If it were a fake website, we wouldn't use the real website's
private key, since computers see the difference between the
fake and real links. It is a map so we don't even know what
the second (fake) link is in the first place, we see it for
the first time and create a completely different key pair for
it which gives the fake website nothing.

Note that since everything is stored on the website or in a
device, we then authenticate with something biometric like
a fingerprint, password, face id, etc. so that robbers won't
get into all of our accounts if the device is robbed. There
are things like RFID cards which are small cards powered by
human's magnetic field (ok lol, bad idea), ID-cards which
can be reverse engineered and fakes created, national pass
but like cmon (I actually use it though and it is complicated).

Anyways, there is a drawback to this method, since those keys
are stored in some place like a firefox website on your pc,
then how do you log in from your phone through google? That
requires connection and synchronization.



--- Password Banks ---
This is also almost how the password banks work (apps in your
device that store and generate different passwords for the
accounts you make). This is useful because if one gets leaked,
and because you are a human thus can't create different unrelated
passwords for each account you make and memorize them, then the
rest of your accounts won't get hacked. Yes, all of them are still
vulnerable if your master password (password for the bank) gets
leaked, but it basically makes it just like the first example.
This allows you to make a single hard and long password for you
to memorize instead of a bunch of unique / random ones.