--- Lecture 16.2 ---
P.S. Check out IN2090 for a reminder on what exactly ACID stands for.

Transactions, i.e. changes in the database, must follow the ACID. ACID is a description on what must be maintained
so that multiple individual changes don't contradict each other or lead to wrong changes (like volatile variables
in processes). Transaction management/processing systems are large databases that have many concurrent users and
require high availability and fast response time, like banks, airline bookings, and so on... Even if we process
just a single user at a time, we still may try to change the same variables in the database simultaneously, so
ACID is important even in cases like these where one concurrent change may fail, whilst the other succeeds. Note
that transations and a transaction isn't the same. Transaction is the process of changing the shared values in the
database itself, whilst transactions is the fact that we change these shared values.

We identify two challenges: Concurrency Control, and Fail Recovery, ACID points out both. Whenever we want to
do a transaction, we specify what part is the transaction itself (i.e. what series of commands is a single
transaction). We do this by using "BEGIN" and "END" statements. In RA, we describe transactions through the
read(D.R.A.X) and write(D.R.A.X) operators where D is the database we are working with, R is the relation table
we access inside D, A is the attribute we want from R (i.e. a collumn), and X is the concrete value (in a row) we
want to read from or write to. But we write read(X) and write(X) for short. We also assume that the value we read
is a copy saved locally inside the process. Whenver we write we save the change to the shared database. Whenever we
estimate the cost of these operators we also estimate searching for the value in read(X) including the block on the
disk or cache, and with write we also include the cost of writing to the disk, as well as read(X) in order to
find and replace the old version of X on disk and cache.

With these values X we can perform operations such as "X := X + 50", "X := X - 20", etc. Both of those examples
shown are a single command, a transaction T (as mentioned before) may consist of multiple such commands. These
updates in each line are local, i.e. we change the copy-pasted version, not the one in the database (cuz of ACID).

--- Lecture 17 ---
There are 4 ways the concurrency process of two transactions trying to acceess same value in a table can go wrong:
1. Dirty Write - Imagine T1 first doing read(X), then T2 doing read(X), after that T1 does some calculations on X
   and then does write(X), after that T2 does some of its own calculations on X and does write(X) as well. Now the
   part where T1 changed X was lost and instead overwritten by T2. This bad because if there is more that T1 has to
   do, such as update some other value Y, it now can't do so because since it is a single transaction, X is
   relevant somehow to Y, for example X being the buyer's bank account balance, and Y being the seller's bank
   account balance. So T1 must be informed of this error and abort its transaction reverting only what's necessary,
   like not reverting X but reverting changes done to Y and such, depends on what T2 changed...
2. Dirty Read - Dirty read is similar to Dirty Write, but instead of T2 overwriting some value X used in T1 (making
   it outdated), instead T2 reads the updated value of T1, but not the commited one, like when T1 rolls back the
   X, thus X in T2 is outdated. Specifically like when if T1 does read(X), then some math on X, then write(X), then
   T2 does read(X) and its own stuff on it, and then T1 has some more stuff to do like read(Y), and so on... and
   then oops! T1 must abort, and thus T2 used wrong data and must abort as well (I don't know how to abort properly
   yet, I will learn much later).
3. Non-Repeateable Read - Imagine we use the nested loop algorithm from Lecture 16.1, this means that we do many
   reads, one for each value of a table we are interested in. And now during this read(Xi) loop, some transaction
   T2 updated Xn (Xn is some X read in Xi loop), now the whole nested loop process is wrong, and which part of it
   is wrong might be unknown and differ in size of consequence dramatically (within the T1 transaction).
4. Incorrect Summary - Basically when due to Dirty Write of X in T1 between T1 and T2 some other variable in T1
   like Y in T1 suffered (but it might be ok? sometimes...). I honestly don't understand the difference between
   this and the Dirty Write itself, so find the difference between the png "L17 - Incorrect Summary.png" and my
   description of the Dirty Write (should be clear enough). Like... How is the reason it fails different here?

Once the transaction is done the result and its completion state is sent for the transaction manager for approval.
If transaction manager sees that there is no collision and such, then it approves and the result is commited to the
database (i.e. no rollback). If not approved, then all the changes the transaction has done are rolled back. The
hard part is the rollback, especially due to concurrency. Usually it is done by locking the change of the variable
and allowing only one transaction to write to it, but due to cache that is not guaranteed, so something like a log
of changes by transactions is used (just guessing what the log is as of writing this).

The reasons for a failure are many, but in the presentation 5 types are mentioned:
1. Computer Fails - Network card driver software crashes, some critical software we depended on crashes, etc.
2. Transaction Errors/Fails - Mid calculation user aborts, division by zero, other logic errors in the code, etc.
3. Concurrency Control Enforcement - Using outdated data, waiting for a lock to open and then getting denied, etc.
   A specific example is like when Dirty Read happens, then the transaction manager detects and aborts T2.
4. Disk Failure - Same as computer fails but specifically for disks. I think only the software is what is meant,
   but maybe hardware problems are included too like removing/damaging the disk mid-reading or mid-writing.
5. Physical Problems - Machine runs out of electricity, CPU cathes on fire, router stops working, hackers do bad
   stuff, anything that happens in the real world that affects the machine (not a software bug or a problem).

P.S. Aborting and rolling back a transaction is basically the Atomicity part of the ACID. The transaction manager
is the one ensuring ACID's consistency i.e. that the rules are followed by the transactions. The protocol that
the transaction manager uses is the isolation part in ACID. And the durability part in ACID is irrelevant...

Also, begin is basically when the transaction starts (atomicity), end is basically when the request for a commit is
sent to the transaction manager, and commit is when the data is actually now officially the up to date information
in the DB and can not be rolled back (unless a backup is used or manual admin change is done). If the end is not
approved for a commit, then it must abort. Abort can also happen any time between the start and end, and can be
initialized by the transaction manager at any point as well. So, all in all, there are 4 commands: begin, end,
commit, abort, read(X), and write(X). We abbreviate those as b, e, c, a, r(X), and w(X) respectively. When we work
with multiple transactions, we also signify which transaction the command belongs to, like b1, b2, e1, r2(X), etc.
Here is an example full notation: "T1: b1, r1(X), w1(X), e1". Note that the operations such as "X := X + 1" do not
count because these are purely local changes and never result directly on concurrency order issues. But they are
the cause of mismatches, it's just that if we don't have these operations, then techincally there would never be
a problem with concurrency, but we focus on the order of changes done, not whether the changes themselves are the
same due to some coincidence in practice (I hope what I wrote makes sense).

--- WRONG: BEGIN ---
We may describe the transaction manager as a scheduler, which is basically a collection of transactions where
either all commit or all abort. But I am not sure if the transaction manager is the scheduler, or may consist of
multiple shcedulers, where each scheduler only has the transactions that may fail some other transaction in that
same scheduler. I.e. if both T1 and T2 access only X, but both T3 and T4 never access X, then Sa has T1 and T2,
whilst Sb has T3 and T4, because these are always isolated. Also for example, if T5 can only be crashed by T2,
and T1 may crash T2, then T1, T2, and T5 are all in Sa, because T1 crashing crashes all, chain reaction follows.
--- WRONG: END ---

I am wrong about the scheduler in the "WRONG" part, it actually is a log, i.e. a step by step, sequential history
of how and what happened in total. Like imagine T1 and T2 working, but we have only one CPU so we simualte the
concurrency by multi-threading (like in OS), so the scheduler is basically telling us how the switching was done
between these two transaction processes. So like: "Sa: b1, r1(X), b2, r2(X), w1(X), r1(Y), w2(X), b2, w1(Y), c2, e2
a1", and that is an example of a Dirty Write where T2 overwrites and commits T1's X value, so T1 aborts. Note that
we don't have to type in begin and end, we assume that we added there where needed. It is easy to figure out when,
we add "bi" where "i" is our transaction number before the transaction's first operation, and "ei" after the last
operation including commit. None of the operations of Ti can go before bi and none can go after the ei. However,
Ti can be repeated, so after the ei bi can go (assuming that there was a bi before the ei, syntax...).

We might design the scheduler to not allow for certain concurrency actions, detect them, and force aborts and such.
1. Serial - Basically no concurrency is allowed, like ever. If a some transaction T1 is working, then T2 and all
   the other transactions must wait for T1 to finish, i.e. either commit or abort. So no interleaving in the logs.
2. Conflict Serialisable - Conflict Serialisable is often what people mean when they say just Serial, because
   Serial from 1. is never even a real option, we need concurrency in real world for optimization. so 2. Serial,
   i.e. Conflict Serial, is when we allow for very simple concurrency with minimal conflict. These conflicts are
   between transactions, which we graph and analyze. If there is a cycle then there is no serial equivalent (bad).
   So basically, anything that is equivalent to the Serial in 1. but not necessarily 100% Serial. Note that 1.
   Serial may produce different results in the DB based on the order of transactions. So when we say that 2. Serial
   must be equivalent to 1. Serial, we mean that all 2. Serials must be equivalent to some chosen 1. Serial.
3. View Serialisable - This version basically allows all sorts of stuff like Dirty Writes and Dirty Reads and such,
   anything goes, literally no restrictions and no oversight, this is where concurrency may directly cause aborts
   to be issued by the transaction manager on purpose, not due to some external error or some transaction crashing
   like in Conflict Serialisable option in 2; I.e. the 2. Serial.
For an example on each one, check out "L17 - Serialisation.png", "L17 - Conflict Serialisation.png", and
"L17 - View Serialisation.png". Note that some of the details I added myself for clarity.

--- Lecture 18 ---
A conflict serialisable shcedule should be equivalent to some serial schedule, i.e. the result will be the same.
If the schedule's concurrency is flawed, then there is no such serial schedule, meaning that the schedule that
allowed for concurrency is not conflict serialisable since it breaks this "very simple concurrency" law. Now,
let's take a look at the approaches on how we may determine this equivalence:

1. Result Equivalence - Two schedules, first with concurrency enabled and second with disabled, where the first
   one is the one we want to check for being conflict serialisable, and the second one is already some serial
   schedule we use for comparison. The comparison is whether the first's result is the same as the second's.
   Remember that a serial schedule's result might differ based on its order. However, since we must compare it
   with some other schedule whose concurrency is enabled, the only right serial schedule to choose from is the
   one where: The first transaction to begin in the first schedule is the first to begin in the second as well.
   So the second schedule is constructed and ordered based on which transaction in the first is to begin next.
   
   For example, let's say we got "Sa: b1, r1(X), w1(X), b2, r2(X), w2(X), r1(Y), w1(Y), r2(Z), w2(Z), c1, e1, c2,
   e2". This schedule is conflict serialisable, because we specifically construct a serial version following the
   begin order "Sb: b1, r1(X), w1(X), r1(Y), w1(Y), c1, e1, b2, r2(X), w2(X), r2(Z), w2(Z), c2, e2" which as you
   can imagine both result in the same database changes. So, the next transaction to begin in Sa, is the next to
   begin in Sb. On the contrary, "Sa: b1, r1(X), b2, r2(X), w1(X), w2(X), c1, e1, c2, e2" is a dirty write, so if
   we create its serial version "Sb: b1, r1(X), w1(X), c1, b2, r2(X), w2(X), c2" the changes Sa did are different
   than those in Sb. So in this second example Sa is not conflict serialisable, its serial yields different result.
   
   The problem is checking this whilst the schedule is running, since it really never finishes. And that creates
   too many problems and hurts more than doing simple serial without any concurrency. It is too brittle to work
   reliably, especially as the system scales up. At least I couldn't come up with a good solution reasonably fast.
   
2. Semantic Equivalence - This approach defines some patterns in the schedule's concurrency that maps these
   conflicts on a graph (as mentioned initially in the definition of conflict-serialisability). There are 2 patterns:
   First is a "read-write conflict" which is when we have some transaction Ti do ri(X) before some other transaction
   Tj did wj(X). Second is a "write-write conflict" which is when we got wi(X) before wj(X). In both these cases we
   add a Ti -> Tj edge to our graph of conflicts. Once we have a Ti -> ... -> Ti cycle in our graph, then the
   schedule is no longer conflict-serialisable, thus only view-serialisable.
   
   Note that any actions inbetween do not matter, i.e. "ri(X), wi(X), rj(X), wj(X)" is still a read write conflict.
   In that previous example, that same conflict is also a write-write one too. Also, here is a an example of a simple
   cycle: Ti <-> Tj, i.e. Ti -> Tj -> Ti. Here is a more complex cycle: Ti -> Tj -> Tk -> Ti.

As mentioned before, view serialisable is fine sometimes. For example "Sa: r1(X), w2(X), w1(X), w3(X), c1, c2, c3"
is fine, even though there is a dirty write here. That is because w3(X) overwrites it anyways, so there is no
problem to begin with in the grand scheme of things. But for that we need to predict the future? Idk... There is
actually a description on how it is defined, so check out "L18 - View Serialisable Equivalence.png". It doesn't
check during run-time, just like result equivalence is. The typical solution is to trigger it after some time,
like when "end" is sent by some transaction for the transaction manager to analyze whether to abort or commit.



Now for atomicity, i.e. the recoverability part of the transaction management (which is also tied to the durabilty
too actually). We distinguish between 3 types of difficulty to recover: Easy, Hard, and Impossible. Easy ones are
the ones we can change right away tied to a single transaction, Hard are the ones where in our schedule, some
transaction B failed due to transaction A failing and so on... So we cascade recover (I think), and then there are
some that are Impossible to recover.

A schedule S is recoverable if there is no transaction Ti in S that commited before some other transaction Tj in S
commited, where some value X was first written by Tj and then read by Ti. We assume that there are no other
transactions that have overwritten X in between this process, and check out "L18 - Recoverability Examples.png".

We can also choose to change how the Hard recoverability is to be done.
1. First method is where we directly handle the cascades by keeping track of which transactions depended on some
   transaction Ti, and abort them if Ti is aborted. Note that keeping track of these cascades is expensive...
2. The second method is called a cascadeless schedule. The idea is to never even get to the point where cascades
   occur by restricting concurrency, which is when if some transaction Tj gets to the read-write conflict due to Ti,
   then it just continues to do other, non-related to the value read stuff, that is until Ti commits, then Tj may
   continue. I.e. there is never a read of X until the transaction that works on X commits, at most one transaction
   may work on a variable at a time. So if some transaction Ti writes to X and Tj starts to read X before Ti
   commited, then the schedule is not cascadeless.
3. Lastly, there is even more strict version called strict schedule which limits concurrency even more than the
   second method, but the recovery is less expensive once more. It basically does not allow any writing to a
   variable until the transaction that wrote to it has commited or aborted. Similarly to the second method, but
   with both write and read and not just read. So something like "Sa: w1(X), w2(X), c1" is not allowed, but "Sa:
   w1(X), c1, w2(X)" is allowed. Note that every strict schedule is also cascadeless, and every cascadeless
   schedule is recoverable, a niche hierarchy :)

In the end it is mentioned in the lecture that Dirty Write "Sa: r1(X), w2(X), w1(X)" is non-conflict-serialisable.
Dirty Read "Sa: w1(X), r2(X), a1, c2" is non-recoverable. Non-repeatable such as "Sa: r1(X), w2(X), r1(X)" are
non-conflict-serialisable. And "Phantoms" is some problem of its own that is "Sa: r1(X), w2(X), r1(Y)" where X
is used with Y in some T1's process, which apparently needs to be treated by "other mechanisms".

There are also isolation "levels", which aren't really levels by the way, i.e. level 2 doesn't cover level 1 or
vice versa, stupid... Anyways, sometimes we decide to "tolerate" some of the concurrency errors and failures for
efficiency, which is where these levels come in, level 0 is no dirty reads allowed, level 1 is no dirty writes,
level 2 is no dirty reads and no dirty writes, i.e. level 2 = level 0 & level 1, and level 3 = level 2 & no
non-repeatable reads. Phantoms require their own specific solution (I believe), so these are not considered.
Basically, level 3 is the only conflict-serialisable one here, the rest are view-serialisable. Fun fact, SQL does
not consider dirty writes, and it isn't level 2 either because it does not allow non-repeatable reads. Check out
"L18 - SQL Isolation Levels.png" for more details on this. Also, there is its own language in SQL for transactions (not scripting, and not transaction management itself), check out "L18 - SQL Transaction.png" for this.