--- Syntax & Semantics ---
As you can see from motivation.png series, we have defined new symbols and limited
2-ary atoms as always having a single free (left) and single bound (right) inputs
which are also called roles. 1-ary ones have a single one that is free too and are
called concepts. So our atoms are 1-ary or 2-ary predicates. Concepts basically
describe objects with common features and roles help us to connect them.

Therefore, we've made special symbols ¬, ⊓, ⊔, and ⊑ which work the same way as
in propositional logic ¬, ∧, ∨, and →. However, those can only be applied to
concepts and not roles. Also, note that ⊤ and ⊥ are both conceepts. Anything that
is valid or unsatisfiable is a concept basically. Also, slight catch, ⊑ also adds
a universal quantifier at the end, so A(x) ⊑ B(x) = ∀x(A(x) → B(x)) where x is
supposed to be the last free variable type left.

Here are some concept examples: 1. Adult, 2. ¬Child, 3. Child ∨ Adult,
4. Juvenile ⊓ Disease. Note that numbers are not part of syntax but are
more like lines of code for our program.

 

For 2-ary atoms (roles) like Damages or Affects to become concepts the second (or one of the two inputs only) must be bound by a quantifier and a concept itself. To
denote something like that we write ∃Damages.Joint and ∀Affects.(Child ⊔ Adult).
The first one says ∃y(Damages(x, y) ∧ Joint(y)), and the second one says
∀y(Affects(x, y) → (Child(y) ∨ Adult(y))).

So these are the equivalences that we get. So, when using ∃ on 2-ary atom, we
divide with ∧, when using ∀ we divide with →, both followed by a concept.



To finalize a concept as a fact, we simply add a quantifier which binds the remainig
quantifiers which should be just 1 variable type like all x-es of a whole concept.
Before an example is given, note that ⊑ is the perfect closure.

Here is an example fact in ALC Person ⊑ Child ⊔ Adult which reads
∀x(Person(x) → (Child(x) ∨ Adult(x)) when translated to first-order logic.

Here are some more fact examples: 1. JuvenileDisease ⊑ ∀Affects.(Child ⊔ Teen),
2. Child ⊔ Teen ⊑ ¬Adult, 3. JuvenileDisease ⊑ Disease. Think of it as something
that belongs to the left side of ⊑ also belongs to the right side of ⊑.

You can check out the types of uses that are commonly done this way thorugh a
Syntax & Semantics.png picture which should be located in the same folder.



We can also represent contants as facts by simply replacing variables with specific
cases, so instead of Human which actually denotes Human(x), we do Human(Joe) which
is the same as Human(Joe) where Joe is now a new constant that is also a human.
Note that ⊤ and ⊥ are both concepts and facts.

If we write Person ⊓ Man(Joe), then it is the same as (Person(Joe) ∧ Man(Joe)), we
simply replace the free variable with a constant which in this case is "Joe".



--- Knowledge Base ---
ALC knowledge base is basically like a database where all the facts are stored and
such denoted as a fancy K symbol. The database K = <T, A> (fancy T and fancy A)
where both T and A are sets. A which is called ABox has all the constants ("data
assertions") that are like Human(Joe) and Affects(HIV, Joe) and such, so basically
concepts/roles where the free variable type is substituted with a constant. T which
is also called TBox has all the facts where the free variable type is bound by a
universal quantifier instead of a constant like in ABox. So for example:
Child ⊔ Teen ⊑ ¬Adult, JuvenileDisease ⊑ Disease, etc.

For some reason, to translate ALC syntax to First-Order Logic syntax, we use symbol
pi like pi_{free variable type}({ALC Concept/Role/Constant/etc.}) which should
output first order logic syntax.

Anyways, sometimes the things we describe in our program might never occur such as
Arthritis only affecting Adults, and JuvenileDisease only affecting Juveniles (Not
Adults), so if we define JuvenileArthritis, it will always be False. This leads to
an error by our program.

So basically we want to check if it is satisfiable or nah, we can do it simply by
checking if from our premises from a TBox we can satisfy this conclusion (fact) A
denoted as T ⊨ A. This is where Sequent Calculus for ALC comes in which is more
like a modal logic to be honest.



--- Alternative Semantic Definition ---
For some reason I am told the other way to define semantics using "Direct (Model-Theoretic) Semantics" which is done by constructing an interpretation I and a domain
D where everything that is in domain D is evaluated as ⊤ and what is not in D is ⊥.

The rest is basically defining logical operators like ¬, ⊓, and ⊔ as the ones from
set theory, where ¬A = D \ A, A ⊓ B = A ∩ B, A ⊔ B = A ∪ B, and some for
quantifiers too, but idk go look at the screenshot instead (Direct Semantics-x.png).

Oh by the way, found out that roles + quantifiers are basically the same as box □,
and diamond ◇ from modal logic. Basically, ◇A = ∃R.A, and □A = ∀R.A, neat right.