How are queries so fast? How is SELECT working under the hood? This is because
of the data structure that SQL has when creating tables. There are 2 types,
hash based which are keys and values using Separate Chaining, best when searching
for certain values in multiple rows. And there is also a B-Tree-Index which is
like an n-ary tree where leaf nodes also have pointers to nearby leaf nodes, so
an n-ary tree for all values and a double linked list between leaf nodes. This
second method is best for when searching by range such as products with price > 50
and such. There are other data structures such as for JSON and such, but we won't
get into those.

These two data structure methods exist because getting data from a hard drive
is way slower than an SSD and RAM. Yes, data is stored in HDDs because it is
cheaper and may store lots of data (good value). So when we get the data, it
is best to get it in chunks which is why a B-Tree-Index and Hash-Index are best.

Whenever a collumn is set as the PRIMARY KEY in SQL, the whole collumn takes
a structure of a B-Tree-Index which makes the JOINs between tables faster.
However, sometimes we want to do joins not between primary keys, but other
collumns. In those cases we must instantiate a B-Tree-Index ourselves.

Whenever we query something it is first translated from SQL syntax to an equivalent
one in Relation Algebra (but it looks more like a tree structure instead of a linear
like the usual), this process is called Parsing. Then we Optimize the Relation Algebra
by looking at its equivalent queries which might take less time to process, kinda like
instead of doing a^2 + a in math we do a(a + 1) instead. We find out which ones are
more likely to be faster also by looking at the statistics of our data in the DB, this
is kinda complicated but it is basically looking at how UNIQUE collumns and how many
unique attributes (out of the ones that can repeat) there are, etc. Lastly before
execution an execution plan is created which is basically the best choice of algorithms
and sequences we take to make the fastest version of this relation algebra work. Then
of course comes the query execution part which looks over our DB and returns the result.

Anyways, if we do not want the result but want to know the execution plan that it would
have created, we can use EXPLAIN command in SQL infront of the query we would want to use.
Note that the cost is the probable range of time that it will take to execute the plan.
It also specifies how many rows and collumns the execution parts return as well as the
algorithm/method used. Also, we read the plan from bottom to top and it is just an estimate.

If we want concrete time it takes, then we do EXPLAIN ANALYZE which actually runs the
execution part but instead of outputing the result outputs the time it took to execute it
and all the other relevant information like time it took for certain parts and size and such.