--- Lecture 19 ---
Next up we got locks, this is what is used in concurrency control ensurance protocol, and they are used within the
transaction manager. Basically what it does is once some transaction tries to access some variable X from the DB,
if that variable is not locked then it may read or written to (read and write have their own locks), if it is
locked then the transaction is asked to wait and if possible move on to some other task it can do in parallel. To
signify locking/unlocking in RA we write "LKD(X)" where X is some variable we lock/unlock. P.S. read and write may
not have each their own lock, it depends on the definition. In binary locks read and write don't have their own
lock, i.e. they share a boolean state of locked/unlocked. Shared/Exclusive locks do make it so that read and write
each have their own lock. So, contradictory to the name "Shared", and unlike in the binary lock system, the locks
actually are not shared. Ok? Weird...

So yeah, transactions themselves have no idea that locks exist, all they know is that a transaction manager may ask
them to wait or to abort. However, these transactions must follow a simple protocol, LKD(X) before read(X) is done
(if not locked already), and LKD(X) before write(X) is done (again, if not locked already), and finally LKD(X) once
all work with X is done within the whole transaction (X must have been locked for that, otherwise it may stay locked
forever, but I assume that the transaction manager handles it somehow, like automatically unlocking once the
transaction commits). It is the transaction manager itself that keeps track of these locks and who can access what
and when, such is the system. So, if some transaction T1 tries to lock X, i.e. LKD(X), but it was already locked by
some other transaction T2, then T1 must wait until T2 unlocks X, i.e. LKD(X). Also, some transaction Tj unlocking X  when it was locked by some other transaction Ti is forbidden, only Ti may unlock it whenever it is done with X.

P.S. in the lecture lock(X) and unlock(X) are also used, but they are doing the same thing as LKD(X). So I guess
in RA we actually write lock(X) and unlock(X) and not LKD(X), which I guess is shortened to l(X) and u(X) when
writing it in the scheduler, for example: "Sa: b1, l1(X), b2, l2(X), w1(X), c1, l2(X), u1(X), e1, l2(X), r2(X),
w2(X), c2, u2(X), e2" where as you can see, because T1 locked X first, T2's l2(X) fails and thus T2 is waiting for
X to be unlocked, and only then does T2's l2(X) succeeds and T2 continues working until end. Note that in the
example the waiting system is basically queuing T2's process back to the end of the OS's scheduler (or whoever
else manages the shceduling concurrency). It may be done differently like having a list of waiting transactions
and broadcasting that some value X has been unlocked to those transactions that needed it. And there are more...

Note that some... questionable, coding may still happen such as in "L19 - Stupid Locks.png" where T2 is technically
using locks in an allowed manner, but in a very bad way making these locks obsolete in practice and actually
slowing down the whole system and not helping to prevent any aborts that could have been... Note that the point
of locks is to help prevent dirty writes, dirty reads, etc. but even if locks are used in a stupid way the syntax
is ok. However, when the protocol of the locks themselves is broken, such as reading the locked value, then it is
not ok. That is precisely what is meant in the lecture slides! We also assume that the transaction manager doesn't
have to keep track of who locked and thus who should unlock, and unlock if some transaction "forgot" to do so.

For scheduling purposes and maybe others the concurrency control subsystem in our DBMS has a table inside which we
can find all the locked variables as well as who locked them (this second one is optional). The values that are
not in the table are deemed unlocked. It is the job of the lock manager module to update this lock table.



After watching the idea of shared/exclusive locking system, I have to say I really don't like it. First of all,
a transaction can only do one type of lock at a time per variable, either read or write. Read lock is basically
a counter to how many transactions are reading X actually, so not really a lock? I don't really understand its
purpose, and I believe that a write lock doesn't prevent transactions from reading, just writing...

Regardless, to avoid most stupid and any illegal stuff, we basically have to follow some rules which I just
screenshoted (cuz me lazy). So go ahead and check out "L19 - Exclusive Lock Rules.png". Also, I think that the
only reason why we have a reader counter is so that whenever there are 0 readers, i.e. no read locks, only then
we can optimize the write lock and allow for multiple write locks simultaneously. And I guess I will find out why
we can't do both read and write lock simultaneously in this exclusive locking system. Because as of writing this
it seems like it is actively sabotaging concurrency by disallowing dirty read/write preventions. There is actually
a pseudo code on how the transaction manager manages these locks and maintains this table in the lecture 19.

By the way, in this system since we got multiple lock types, we differentiate between them in the scheduler like
this: Read-lock is written as "rl" instead of just "l" like in binary system, and write-lock as "wl". So for
example "Sa: rl1(X), r1(X), rl2(X), r2(X), u2(X), wl1(X), w1(X), u1(X)" which is an example of something that is
not okay to do, since we need to do "u1(X)" some time before "wl1(X)" is done. Read the P.S. below for more...

P.S. I don't know if I mentioned it, but apparently read-lock prevents any transaction from write-locking the same
variable, and I assume it also works the other way around then? I.e. write-lock prevents read-locking. And suddenly
it makes sense why only one lock can be done by a transaction at a time. So T1's own write-lock should allow T1
to read X as well, but not the rest then. This also means that if T1 does a read-lock, then it may upgrade it to
a write-lock later without unlocking it, i.e. when read-lock counter is 1, an extra edge-case scenario rule then.
This also means that we may also downgrade from write-lock to a read-lock (conditions are more complicated
because if there are 0 reads then there may be multiple writes I believe and as we know there can't be a read
lock whenever there is a write lock, again if I remember correctly).



Now that the locking rules are in place, we can talk about two-phase locking which is basically how we should be
using locks to prevent these dirty writes, dirty reads, and other stuff that cause failures and aborts. This is
how this protocol works: Each transaction must first follow the locking rules, i.e. lock before reading/writing,
and then the new rule is that after the first unlock, no more locking is allowed. Each transaction must be
structured around this rule when coding the transaction itself. Thus there are 2 phases basically, the growing
phase, i.e. the locking only part, and then the shrinking part, i.e. the unlocking only part. This single new
restriction with these use of locks will always ensure at least conflict-serialisability. For example comparison
check out "L19 - Two Phase Locking I.png" and "L19 - Two Phase Locking II.png".

However, there is a drawback with two-phase locking. There exists a case where some schedule is serialisable, but
two-phase locking will not allow it. Two-phase lock's main goal is to ensure that the schedule is serialisable, so
in some cases where it is serialisable the two-phase lock protocol is left dissatisfied. However, in all cases
where a schedule is non-serialisable the two-phase lock protocol is also left dissatisfied which is great. So the
protocol limits concurrency, even when there is nothing wrong with it, but ensures serialisability.

The previous tradeback is basically a tradeoff, less concurrency for more stability. But the second drawback are
the presence of dead-locks. For example "Sa: rl1(X), r1(X), rl2(Y), r2(Y), wl1(Y), wl2(X)" is a dead-lock. Both
T1 and T2 must wait for either to unlock a variable, and neither can proceed and actually unlock it. To prevent
this issue, all the locks are to be done right away at the start of the transaction's process. It is said that
this first dead-lock prevention method always works, but I don't think so... Unless all the locks of a transaction
are done before others may lock some of them that is. There is also a more popular and less restrictive version,
i.e. the second dead-lock prevention method, which is when all the write unlocks are at the end. More concurrency
with the second method than with the first since it is less restrictive. This second method also guarantees
strict schedules (Check out recoverability section from previous lectures, i.e. Transaction I). Last and least is
the third method which is just bad but for lazy coders, which says that all unlocking is done at the end only. It
is not dead-lock free, it only guarantees strict shcedules, and concurrency is very limited, but as mentioned
before it is apparently easy to implement...

So, how to fix deadlocks (which occurs in all lock systems: Binary, exclusive, etc.)? Because the second method is
the one we probably gonna use... We may try to prevent deadlocks, detect deadlocks and abort, and introduce
timeouts (i.e. if a process waits too long, abort it). Note that some of the protocols will have "stravation",
which means that they may be aborting and doing a roll back indefinitely (I hate the fact that it may even happen).

Here we will cover just the naive approach, for more go to Leacture 20. So, obviously the first naive approach
is the conservative two-phase locking, i.e. the first method we discussed. Then there is the idea of locking based
on some pre-defined order which I will not even explain because I see so many reasons for why it is wrong and
doesn't help in any way. So many problems that the professor does not mention believing in them blindly, or not
mentioning thinking it is obvious and it is me that doesn't get it... P.S. I am in the wrong because the
explanation that the professor gave us was shit, or so I believe at least since I didn't get it.

--- Lecture 20 ---
Now for the actual methods that work (I mention the naive only because I might need it on exam). These are based
on the time and some transaction checks, but not on "T1 has been waiting too long" kinda stuff, so these are still
some good and determenistic algorithms without needing to configure any values.

First we got Timestamp-based category algorithms:
1. Wait-Die: This method basically keeps track of how old each transaction is, and whenever some transaction T1
   requests to lock some variable X that is already locked by T2, if T1 is older than T2 then T1 waits for T2 to
   finish. However, if T1 is younger than T2 then T1 aborts. So if T1 is younger than T2 it always aborts instead
   of waiting to prevent deadlocks, and since it is the youngest the oldest get to finish their work (nice). By
   the way, this is what was meant by the order based naive solution that I didn't bother to mention...
2. Wound-Wait: Basically Wait-Die rule, but in reverse. This means that in a similar situation if T1 is older
   than T2 then T2 aborts, and if T1 is younger than T2 then T1 waits. So again, oldest get to finish and youngest
   get aborted, But, unlike in Wait-Die, here it is the older transactions that abort the younger ones, whilst in
   the Wait-Die it is the younger that abort themselves. The choice depends on the concurrency scheduler we got.

The drawback of both is that we must keep track of time stamps, and that we abort transactions where there are no
deadlocks, but where there might be instead, kinda like how antibiotics work (don't know which bacteria are evil,
so we kill all the bacteria, good die too, but so do the evil ones). Same drawback for the two ones below too.

Next we got the second category which are called waiting-based:
1. No-Waiting: If some transaction T1 tries to lock X which is already locked by T2, then T1 aborts, that's it.
   The drawback is obvious, but it is simple. However, I personally don't go for simple and would rather go for
   what is more effective. This one transaction management algorithm just aborts for basically no good reason.
   It is basically a simplified version of the timestamp-based algorithms, just that we don't need timestamps...
2. Cautious-Waiting: This algorithm simply checks if T2 is still running, if T2 is not waiting then T1 waits.
   However, if T2 is waiting and T1 sees that, then T1 aborts thinking that there is a deadlock.

All of these algorithms, including timestamped ones are not perfect and may abort whenever there are no deadlocks.
But all of them work and guarantee that there are no deadlocks. All of them obviously weaken the concurrency's
efficiency, but there is little we can do about it. Also, the waiting-based algorithms may cause starvation, which
is basically when we constantly abort transactions such that none ever finish, an infinite loop... Timestamp-based
don't have this kind of problem, since older always have the priority. So I like the timestamp-based more :)
Though small transactions are fine with the waiting-based method and possibly even faster in practice.

Obviously we also got the timeout-based deadlock avoidance algorithm, which is where we have a constant or some
value we calculate which dictates how long a transaction may wait until it must abort. Starvation is possible if
the value is poorly chosen, efficiency suffers from that too. But it might also make it slightly faster if chosen
well, though I myself am not a fan of this method anymore (I kinda was slightly before). This method is quite
popular though and is used in many cases such as Error 404 - Page Not Found (not a DB related example though).

So that was the aborting part, what we can also do is specifically create an algorithm that keeps track of these
transaction, which ones wait on which on some wait-for graph, and basically with each addition check for cycles
(or ocasionally). Once a cycle is found we can abort any single one transaction in that cycle, but preferably the
shortest to live should go first (no starvation). So we got nodes which are the transactions, and edges which
indicate if some transaction Ti waits for some transaction Tj by connecting the two (directional graph). The
problem is to maintain such a graph, since for each new read/write we do a whole path to see if it is a cycle.



That was all related to fixing the problems that the two-phase locking couldn't fix. Next we got a timestamp based
approach (not to confuse with the timestamp based rule that the two-phase lock uses to resolve deadlocks). So,
this protocol (which is an alternative to the two-phase locking one) defines an order based on the time the
transaction got launched. This method does not use locks, instead it just runs the schedule until a conflict is
found and then rolls back a single transaction. Note that this method doesn't seem to have starvation, but may
have some recoverability issues.

So in an example schedule "Sa: b1, b2, w2(X), r1(X)" T1 reads after T2 wrote, and this is where the fail occured
because according to the timestamp rule T1 can never read from a transaction ahead of it in the timestamp. T1 must
finish reading X before those other transactions ahead may write to X. So in this case T1 is aborted and it starts
all over again to restore the timestamp read-write order, then T1 is the one ahead of the T2 now (good). Note that
this rule also applies for a read-write fail "Sa: b1, b2, r2(X), w1(X)". However, there are no write-write and
read-read fails/rules, for a more formal definition check out.

These 2 rules are written in RA as such, and I will also explain them (after the rule which is the first sentence):
1. When T issues read(X), if WriteTS(X) > TS(T) then roll-back T, else finish read(X) and set ReadTS(X) to
   max(ReadTS(X), TS(T)). So here we basically check whether there exists some transaction Ti that has already
   written X, and is younger than the current transaction Tj (the one that tries to read right now). If such a
   transaction Ti exists, then Tj must do a roll-back. If it doesn't exist, then Tj checks if it is the youngest
   one that has read that variable X, if it is then the read timestamp is that of Tj's, otherwise the old read's
   timestamp is kept (used for comparison by other transactions in rule 2, similarly to how we used the youngest
   who written to X constant in here, i.e. rule 1).
2. When T issues write(X), if ReadTS(X) > TS(T) or WriteTS(X) > TS(T) then roll-back T, else finish write(X) and
   set WriteTS(X) to TS(T). Here we just check if we are the youngest transaction that has interacted with X, if
   not then we roll-back. If we are indeed the youngest one then we update the X's write timestamp to ours such
   that others may compare it in rule 1 (as mentioned in rule 1 as well).

Note that the larger timestamp indicates a younger transaction, i.e. the transaction that started at a later time.
Also note that in the second rule we may ignore the "... WriteTS(X) > TS(T) ..." condition. This trick is called
the Thomas writing rule.

--- Lecture 21.1 ---
There is also an addition to these two protocols (the two phase locking and timestamp based) where we basically
keep multiple versions of the same variable data and then merge the changes of each one together with the original
(the outdated one), which is not a bad idea to be honest. For that we will from now on write "X0" instead of just
"X" where "0" is now also the version of that variable that we use.

In the timestamp based protocol each variable has a timestamp, WTS(X) is the timestamp of the transaction that
wrote it, and RTS(X) is the youngest transaction that has read it. With multiversion timestamp protocol we keep
these older WTS-es and update their RTS-es whenever needed. Thus, each WTS(Xa) has both the transaction's timestamp
TS(Ti), and the version "a" which is basically its own new timestamp (unique to each version globally, not locally
within the transaction's TS).

So, whenever some transaction Ti wants to read X it makes sense to read the newest version of X, but Ti must
preserve the order and thus cannot read from any versions that were written by somebody younger than Ti, because
if Ti were it'd be effectively reading the future (can only read present or past). So Ti must read the youngest
version of Xa such that WTS(Xa) <= TS(Ti). After the read, Ti updates the RTS(Xa) version with its own timestamp
if it is the youngest to have read it so far, i.e. max(RTS(Xa), TS(Ti)). So the whole update formula is
RTS(Xa) = max(RTS(Xa), TS(Ti)).

Whenever Ti wants to write to X, the logic behind the rule is that different versions may coexist, but the system
is fragile. Here is the rule: Ti gets the youngest version of X, which we will call Xa, whose write timestamp is
not younger than Ti's timestamp. If Xa's read timestamp is younger than Ti's, then Ti aborts. That is because
what we got is basically a read-write order violation; Ti wrote to X after some younger transaction read X, note
that this rule is so advanced because we now allow for interactions where this younger transaction may read other
variations of X that do not create this sort of conflict. All these X-es are then merged after some condition (idk
what it is though, and I assume that since time based probably won't work and schedules never end in practice).
Anyways, if Ti is not forced to abort, i.e. youngest Xa such that WTS(Xa) <= TS(Ti), and RTS(Xa) >= TS(Ti), then 
Ti creates a new version of X which we will call Xb where WTS(Xb) = TS(Ti) and RTS(Xb) = TS(Ti) too.



When it comes to two-phase locking variant, we know that if Ti read locks X, Tj can also read lock X and both can
read from it. But whenever Ti write locks X then Tj can't read X, and whenever Ti read locks X, Tj must wait for
Ti to read unlock X before it can write lock X. And obviously, Ti can't write lock X if Tj write locked X already.
The mutliversion variant of two-phase locking does allow for write lock X while X is read locked, and vice versa,
but not the write lock on write lock. Also, in addition to "read" and "write" we get a new aspect called "certify".
Certify is used when committing the different versions of X to the database. Ti certify locking X requires there to
be no Tj that read locked X, and no write lock nor another certify lock either. You can see these relation in the
"L21.1 - MVTPL.png", note that "MVTPL" might not be the correct name for this version of two-phase locking method.

There is also a validation based protocol, which is basically when the transactions gets to do whatever it wanted
to, but before writing it validates the data it read. So there are 3 phases, read only phase where it reads all
the data it needs, then validation phase where it does some checks (idk what these are, and it might roll back
if the checks fail of course), and then in the last phase it does all the writes and commits. I am also told that
this is THE multiversioning protocol, and that it is better than the other multiversioning protocols for various
reasons like better concurrency, and also the fact that concurrency subsystems (as we will see in the future)
become simplier. However, the roll backs may still not be recoverable, and the schedule might be starving.

However, the protocol that is used the most is called Snapshot Isolation. It is used in PostgreSQL, Oracle, etc.
This protocol is not even conflict-serialisable, but it still preserves isolation just in a different way. Look
at this schedule: "r1(X), r1(Y), r2(X), r2(Y), w1(Y), w2(X), c1, c2". As you can see there are conflicts, two in
fact. So, it is not serialisable, but is that a problem? If you look closely, everything still works fine and no
wrong data was used by either of the transactions as well as there being no overwrites (good). So, it basically
works by simply updating the values only when comitting, just writing creates local versions of same data. So,
I guess it is the same as limiting the writing to just one write for each variable per transaction?

Anyways, the problem with SI (Snapshot Isolation) is the fact that it can do what's called a skew-write, which is
best explained through an example. Let's say that we have 239 spaces out of 240 booked in an airplane. Two users
try to book a flight and both transactions succeed because both read 239 out of 240, and both book 1 more person.
Once both commit we get 241 out of 240 booked, which is over the limit (bad). Both committed, so no aborts or
roll-backs allowed. It was not discussed in the lecture, but there is a version of SI called SSI - Serializable
Snapshot Isolation, which tries to detect write-skews. But I guess you might as well use other protocols then...
That is, if SSI truly is serializable (which I did not ask AI).

There is also one called Multiple Granularity Locking, which instead of locking just variables also allows to lock
entire rows, disk blocks, tables, and database itself. So there are different locking levels introduced in case
some big transaction needs to lock huge amounts of it (too many small locks, not efficient). The problem is that
some transactions that do only lock fine amounts of data, like just a couple of variables for example, then the
big transaction must check the entire section for any existing locks. To fix this we introduce intention locks
for reads, writes, etc. which basically locks the larger sections that cover it, but allows for finer locks to
be done (tree like structure where it locks the entire path to its section with intention locks, and the part that
it works on itself with a regular lock). So if T1 locks entire row A in table R it also intention-locks R, now T2
that wanted to lock all of R can't do it because it is intention-locked, but T3 can lock some other variable Y or
a tuple B in R because Y and B themselves aren't locked nor intention-locked. However, some transaction T4 can't
lock nor intention-lock some variable Z in tuple A in R because T1 obviously locked the entire tuple. Since it
works with two-phase locking protocol, we got intention-shared lock (some finer part is read locked), intention
exclusive lock (some finer part is exclusive-locked, i.e. read and write locked), and shared-intention-exclusive
lock (this part is read locked, and some finer part is write locked). Note that finer part means descendants of
the current part, such as A being a finer part of R, and X finer than A, but not vice versa for both.