--- Lecture 6 ---
So we are basically getting a reminder of the relational algebra (also know as RA) operations. Like the inputs are
always the names of the tables (acting like a FROM in SQL). Then there is selection operation (sigma) which acts as
a WHERE in SQL. Similar to the selection which selects rows, we got projection which selects collumns instead
denoted with a pi symbol (acts as a SELECT in SQL). Finally there is a naming operation which just renames the
table or names the output table (similarly to AS in SQL). As we know already, the attributes that we want to choose
are denoted below the method before the parantheses: π_name(σ_id=5(Customers)) where Customers table has attributes
name and id.

Also, let's not forget about cross products also known as joins from SQL in RA denoted as a cross ×. Anyways, for
best summary and a detailed one check out what I had written in my notes back when I was studying IN2090 (I have
nice notes which I had when preparing for an exam from back then). But anyways, these 4 operations mentioned thus
far and 2 more are the most fundamental operators: selection, projection, renaming, cartesian product, union, and
difference.

Important definition: "Simpler" in this course means what is expected to run faster, not what is actually easier to
understand, but this isn't always what the professor means during his talks, sometimes it does mean something that
is quite intuitive and easy to understand when explaining stuff.

In the end he also menitioned commutativity, associativity, idempotency, etc. which is probably important for when
we will need to use equivalences to optimize everything and translate to a simpler query. For a full list of laws
just check the Lecture 6 slides and you will find them somewhere past the second half of the presentation (likely).
Also, note that some laws do not always apply and are more like tricks for specific cases. This is useful for when
we have analyzed the contents of the tables we are applying these operations and laws on to query data faster.

By the way, intersection can be expressed using difference like T1 ∩ T2 ≡ T1 \ (T1 \ T2). Natural join can also be
defined using just these fundamental operators, but it is much more complicated, and I will not write it down here,
just check out the end to the lecture 6 yourself, and simply know what it is.

--- Lecture 7 ---
We are using cartesian product to define the natural join in this course, but usually it is very inefficient and
therefore we define natural join natively instead. Note that the language does not become less expressive.

Anyways, when it comes to other joins, we define them as follows: Left Semi-Join denoted as R ⋉ S is equivalent to
π_R_attributes(R ⋈ S), similarly for the right one it is π_S_attributes(R ⋈ S). When it comes to Anti-Joins, it is
denoted as R ▷ S and is equivalent to R \ (R ⋉ S). Note that R ▷ S is equivalent to S ◁ R (so it is symmetric),
and that R ◁ S is equivalent to S \ (S ⋉ R).

A little note on division operator, it is basically supposed to be the opposite of the cartesian product, e.g.
(R × S) ÷ S = R, but note that the way we define the division operator may not result in (R ÷ S) × S being R. The
way we define the division operator is also quite complicated (a mediocre formula size, not short but not too
long). Anyways, it is not really all that useful, so I would rather spare the details on this one.

In the end we talk about how we can generalize the projection operator. We basically do that by allowing renaming
and mathematical operators to be used in the parameters section. Renaming is done via "->" symbol, old to new, and
math is done as usual. This also requires a renaming of the answer that we got to prevent collisions and to project
only the unchanged attributes. So if we do "ID + 5 -> IDPlus", then in that same projection operator (to retain the
rest of the unchanged data) we mention the rest of the unchanged attributes to also be included, so all except the
"ID". Once the renaming is done, whatever was renamed is automatically assumed to be included in the result.

We also talk about outer joins which require constant NULL to work. We add it to our RA just like we did with the
general projection operator to allow us to define these outer joins. It is also mentioned some more characteristics
that these operators have like idempotency, commutativity, associativity, etc. May not apply to all, didn't check.

--- Lecture 8 ---
Here we are reminded of bags (I think I have gone through it before already). Anyways, we talk about how we will
have to do some minor changes for most operations (no biggie), but for these two: Union & Projection, we will have
to redefine completely simply because we allow for duplicates now, so even if the inputs are sets just like before,
the outputs now suddenly might be bags. So it becomes like UNION ALL from SQL instead of just UNION. Projection
keeps the duplicates of rows, even if they weren't really duplicates before, but they became due to stripping some
collumns which caused collisions between these rows.

For core operations, here is how we change them: Difference between R and S only removes the common rows between R
and S the amount of times that they are present in S. So if R has 5 identical rows, but S has only 2 of those rows,
then the result will have 3 remaining, and not 0. It also can't have less than 0. Selection doesn't care if the row
already exists in the answer, it adds it anyways. The join also doesn't care, it produces the duplicates too and
joins betweem the duplicates too.

To adjust our RA so far to include bags, we have several new operators, but for now just 2 are shown: Duplicate
Elimination δ which basically converts bags into sets, and Grouping & Aggregation γ which is basically projection,
but some of the rows are merged when an aggregation operator like SUM() or COUNT() is used on that collumn denoted
as "->", so like "γ_(Student, COUNT(Subjects) -> SubjectCount)", which renames and repurposes the Subject collumn.

In the end, we have a look at how to do constraints on our tables, e.g. UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, REFERENCES, NOT NULL,
etc. For PRIMARY KEY we simply do a natural join on itself (with renaming), and see if there are any rows that have
the second part of the row not identical to the first part, formally: σ_C(R ⋈ ρ_N(R)) = Ø is true, where N are all
the attributes that are not part of the primary key being renamed into something different that is not in R
originally, and C is the constraint that looks at each renamed attribute and compares it with the original one, if
they are not the same it is added to the result table. As you can see, the result must be empty. As for foreign
keys, e.g. REFERENCES we check if one table's combination of attributes equals the other table's combination of
attributes. Formally: δ(π_(R_attributes)(R)) ⊆ δ(π_(S_attributes)(S)) is true.