--- Lecture 9 ---
Next we learn about indexes, and how the database (SQL) optimizes data structures. We want to query it as fast as
possible, that is our main goal. The secondary priorities are data insertion and deletion speed, can't be anything
crazy slow even if we sacrifice a little bit of query time. Indexes are tables (other than the tables that store
data), that help speed up different processes like insertion, query, and deletion. So like address/pointer storage.
These indexes point to a block in memory where the row of a table is stored more on what blocks are later.

There are 3 types of queries we are often looking for in rows. First is getting the exact value (equals sign), the
second one is finding the value in an interval (more/less than, range, etc.), and lastly the "multi-attribute"
search which is basically adding extra conditions through AND or OR and such. These are the areas we will try to
focus on the most to optimize our data storage around.

Data is stored on secondary storage hardware (HDD, SSD, Flash, etc.) which is the only permanent way to store data
once the power is off (except for cloud, but they store it the same way). In HDD or SSD and such the data is often
stored in form of blocks. You can't get a single data from disk, you get a whole block full of data in it. The data
stored in blocks can be done in 4 ways:
1. Continuous, Unspanned - The block fits as many rows of data of a table as it can until it can not fit the next
  row. It is then that the next block takes that next row and continues taking the next ones, and so on.
2. Continuous, Spanned - The block fits as many rows of data of a table as it can, if the block can not fit the
  next row, it fits whatever it can and the rest is being given to the next block (use space more sparingly,
  potentially slower due to load of multiple blocks for a single tuple). Also, we assume that a single row takes up
  at most a single empty block of memory space.
3. Linked, Unspanned - Depending on how these blocks are placed in memory, the next block might not have the data
  of next rows, so all we do is we just reserve a little amount of space for a pointer to the next block.
4. Linked, Spanned - Similarly to 2. and 3. the block has a pointer to the next block and the rest of unfilled
  space is filled as much of the next row as possible before filling the rest we couldn't fill to the next block.
Generally, continuous unspanned also known as option 1 is the default (and I agree that it should be).

As for data structure, keeping blocks sorted (both inside and outside) allows for quick queries using binary
search. Insertion and deletion both get quite expensive. That is because to keep the whole thing sorted we must
create space for inserted data in the right place, meaning we must move everything else, similarly for deletion.
Similarly for indexes, there we may also use a binary search (depends if there is a pattern or not, unlike hash).

Back to indexes (i.e. tables of pointers). There can be multiple indexes of different types which accomplish
different goals, all of this depends on the data of the data table we are indexing. If we are searching for
something that can only return a single tuple as a result (i.e. a row with a primary key), then we can do the
fastest method called Primary Index. If the search can return multiple tuples either due to an interval query or
narrow search like in case of selecting specific collumns from a table, then the best we can do is what's called a
Cluster Index. So far both of these were able to be sorted in some way to minimize search, but Secondary Index is
one that can not be sorted for a single value only, and is often used to optimize for a some specific permutations
of queries & such. Like if you want to sort to make efficient queries for both attributes A and B of a table, but
you can never get the optimal one for both A and B, some compromises must be made between the two. Also, I believe
I forgot to mention that due to the fact that we are using index tables now, we are doing binary search on them
instead of blocks (because the point was to find the right block, but now we can do it fast and on indexes which
literally have the pointer to the right block only which save space and can be put more of into a single block,
which means faster confirmation due to not needing to load more blocks than necessary, but a few extra always
because the index itself is in a block too).

Primary Index is best when it is "sparse", but it can also be "dense" (thought there is no reason to). Dense is
basically when we create a table where each value maps to the address pointing to the block where the row of that
value is in. Sparse is basically the same as Dense, but we do not have value-address maps if there is an another
value-address map already in the index table which leads to the same block. Keep in mind that both Primary Index
and inside the blocks, the values and tuples respectively, are sorted, but the blocks themselves are not sorted by
the values that they have inside (it is redundant). This way we just find the value in that table that is the
lesser one of: The two values in the index that the query value lies between (or equal to one of them). This is why
Dense is not used, it is redundant.

Also, when doing deletion we only update that one block where data was deleted, because updating all the blocks
below is just an absurd thing to do because it is way too expensive (i.e. slow). Besides, we do not need to keep
the blocks sorted, just their insides, as long as we we have this value-address map implemented it is. Of course we
are still left with some holes in some blocks that have their space unused at all when deleting tuples from these
blocks, but we just take the L, and move on. Potential future insertions might fix this problem. Also, make sure
that the value-address map is sorted for faster queries and insertion, since blocks outside aren't sorted don't
rely on the neighbouring address blocks to have neighboring value tuples like in the sorted value-address map.

--- Lecture 10 ---
Cluster Index is same as primary, but the values may repeat in our value-address map. Dense version of clustering
indexes is similar to primaries indexes. Sparse however has 2 versions for clustering indexes (and I find the
second to be best, and first to be stupid & situational). First version is that we have a value-address map per
each different value which points to the first block that has that value. Why I find this stupid is if there is
another block with the same value, we won't know where that other block is (because blocks are unsorted and values
may repeat). So this requires blocks to be sorted to each other which is hella expensive, especially on insertion
and deletion. The second version is to just have value-address per block and not per value instead. This is amazing
because when searching for a value we just look at the address of a block that is before the one that exceeds this
value in our value-address map. I.e. if we have 10, 20, and 40, and we need 30: We look at 40, realize that 40 >
30, go back one step to 20, and get the address of a block that has 20. If we are looking for 40, we still go to 20
because even if the fourth block starts with 40, the previous block (20) may still have 40 and end with 40 too. But
we also continue until the next one doesn't have a 40, i.e. strictly higher than 40.

I hope that all of this makes sense, if not just quickly skeem through the lectures 9 and 10 and look at some
pictures that they have. Also, pay attention on how memory works, it is similar to virtual vs physical memory and
pages from IN2140, but not identical. Still struggling? Get good I guess...

Anyways, lastly we got Secondary Index which is basically when we are looking for a value, but that value is not
sorted in the blocks we want. So we can't do any sparse methods, because that requires the data inside the blocks
to be sorted. So our only choice is to create a dense value-address map for these values (the map itself is
sorted).

Now that we are done with explaining dense and sparse indexing implementations, as well as primary, cluster, and
secondary indexes, we can go to multi-level indexes. In practice all of what is mentioned before does save lots of
memory, but we can do better by creating dense indexes (even on primaries and clusters), and then optimizing it all
by creating a sparse index of a single block in size for those dense indexes (spacing can be adjusted dynamically,
but I am not sure if that is efficient on insertion and deletion). In principle, we can have any amount of sparse
index layers on each other, and yes we do a binary search on these sparse indexes, and their sparse/dense indexes,
and so on... Note that the depth level depends on how big the table is.

So apparently we can make the amount of levels shrink or grow dynamically, depending on some formula on how many we
need (depends on how many tuples fit in a block, and how many maps fit in a block too). I am guessing that my idea
with dynamic spacing of those values mentioned previously must also be implemented. And the insertion and deletion
is also mentioned to be a problem just like I suspected (it gets slowed down). Anyways, there are 3 algorithms:
1. B-trees: Similar to B+-trees, but we store the pointer of the value as soon as it is found, else we go deeper
  down the tree. This basically means that the child nodes will not have that value-address, and will have their
  own ranges that exlude that value (easy to deal with), but each value in the node has an extra address. Which
  means less children per parent, but less nodes in total (or at least the same, not sure).
2. B+-trees: Very similar to the multilevel indexing idea, but we use trees instead, just check out the screenshot
  "L10 - B+-Trees.png", with this context in mind it should be self-explanatory. By the way, there are some special
  and smart algorithms that help with insertion and deletion in these B+-trees, I have to research them myself.
3.1 B*-trees: Too many variations, the professor didn't bother to teach us that (fair enough).
3.2 Hash-Based Index: Same stuff as multilevel indexing, but sometimes the values are too big in size, so we just
  hash em and use that as the value reference. Though I don't like it due to collisions that may occur and because
  we also have to calculate the hash. However, these are just annoyances, the real problem is that interval search
  becomes really bad now because it is hash... :/ We also have to configure the hash output size, and make sure
  that it isn't crowding too much either (values are equally distributed), this way we make sure that there will
  be no cases where some parts are full or nearly full, while others are empty or nearly empty.

These indexes are usually created automatically based on restrictions and such provided when creating a table.
However, as discussed before sometimes we want to create some manual ones which can be done in PostgreSQL using the
"CREATE INDEX ..." command. For instructions on how exactly to do the rest just google I guees. However, we usually
don't get to choose which type of index we are creating (like a B-Tree, B+-Tree, Hash-Based Index, etc.). Some
programs allow that, but PostgreSQL has B-Trees as the default, so just deal with that. Lastly we get some data on
how much faster the query on 10 million tuples becomes, spoiler: It became much faster, like 500 times faster.

--- Lecture 11.1 ---
What if we are searching for a tuple with both values A and B in a table? Assuming that we have an index on both A
and B, we could search for them separately. But that would mean that we choose too many tuples and thus read too
many unnecessary blocks that have one of but not both A or B (and we want specific values of both). First thought
is that before applying those addresses to search for this data in those blocks, we instead do an intersection on
these addresses to see where the addresses that we got from both A and B are the same, and go there. This is called
Multi-Dimensional Indexes. However, for that we need a secondary index which means that we need a multi-level
index. So, one multi-level index for A, and one multi-level index for B.

There are algorithms that allow us to be more efficient like K-D-Trees, Quad-Trees, R-Trees, etc.
1. K-D-Trees: We basically create a binary tree where each node either has a value or an address. If the current
  node has a value, then one of its children has either an address or the next attribute type value. Note that
  this results in us cycling between attribute types with each layer. If the value we are looking for is higher
  than the current node, then we go to the right, otherwise we go to the left, and we continue until we get an
  address, then we stop and go to that block. Check out screenshot "L11 - K-D-Trees.png" for a visual example.
2. Quad-Trees: Here we have a tree where each node has 2^D branches where D is the number of dimensions that w
  have (i.e. attribute types). We also ask the same question as in K-D-Trees, but we do it all at the same time
  for each of the attributes. So if attribute no.1 higher and attribute no.2 lower/equal go to node no.3 and such.
  In the example screenshot "L11 - Quad-Trees.png" we got 2 dimensions, i.e. 2 attributes.
3. R-Trees: Didn't really understand, but apparently we are allowing duplicate addresses to the block from some
  value X. It is also "almost logarithmic" in time complexity.
4. Multidimensional hash-like strucutre: Basically we create a hash function for each attribute type, and use em
  on their respective attributes when searching to get a value. Each hash value from each hash function is the
  coordinate in our D-dimensional value-address map (D is the amount of arrtibute types). The downsides are the
  same as with the Hash-Based Index, i.e. collisions, crowding, and that interval search isn't viable anymore.
  Basically what we did here is we just generalized and expanded Hash-Based Index to multiple dimensions.