--- Lecture 24 ---
For now I want to point out a lot that I either do not understand or think is something stupid, and that is the
explanation about "the problem of using SQL" such as "assuming that data is stored on disks", as well as "Big Data"
which is basically for when we need to take special measures on how to process data (cuz there is too much so we
like split it into multiple facilities around the globe and sync them sometimes or idk). By the way, NoSQL stands
for "Not only SQL", just to clarify...

So this use of NoSQL is basically the addition of other languages and tools to the already existing SQL langauge,
toolkit, and an addition to how the Relational Databases operate overall, like adding JSON, XML, and RDF/S files
for when a schema is not required creating "semi-structured" or "self-describing" data models. Semi-structured is
when the data between the rows doesn't always have the same collumns. Think of it as creating a single table for
each unique data we gather, such as a human always having a name and an age, but the contact varies. Some might
have gmail as their contact, some their phone number. Instead of creating 2 collumns for the person's gmail and
phone number where most have one of the two as NULL, or infinitely many other options for that matter, if all we
care about is a way to contact the person a JSON gives us this flexibility at the cost of structure. Note that
this is just an example, and many still accept either just a phone number or a gmail. Self-describing is like
foreign keys in SQL, but much more flexible than that. In RDF/S it is true that it basically is the foreign key
which is basically describing the relations between data in the database. But what if you have two databases whose
foreign keys have a different name or one is more complicated than the other and you want to merge some data? That
is when in RDF/S you can simply connect the meaning between the two, even if the structure is internally different.

Obviously for semi-structured stuff we can simply split them into structured stuff, like an SQL table for human's
name and age and then a foreign key to a table of what we couldn't categorize properly to each due to uniqueness.
And for semi-describing we could simply create a table linking IDs from one database's tables to another one's.



Back to Big Data, this is the largest issue here. Whenever there are too many users for a single computer to
handle, and too many data stored for a single disk to handle, we must use multiple. That is what Distributed
Database Systems is about, we spread the load to multiple devices all connected together acting as one. So the
scaling goes as follows: We got vertical scaling which means upgrading to a better single device (bad scalability
but easy), and we got horizontal scaling meaning buying more devices and connecting them together (good scalability
but hard).

Each device (whether it's main purpose is to process transactions or store data) counts as a "node". Due to speed
often there are servers around the globe, and to make those servers and transaction processing faster they also
have databases with identical or very similar data which they sync from time to time (I believe). There are two
architectures describing how this structure works: First assume that we got many databases and many servers around
the globe all loosely connected through internet (i.e. relatively slow and low-scale connection). First is called
Master-Slave which is when we have a single (or very few) master servers that users contact to apply changes. But,
we got many servers only for reading data called slaves. Like Imagine a blog platform where people go to read
articles. There are many slave servers which are for users who are there to provide the majority with these
articles, and only few users (authors) write these articles. The goal is to distribute the load, but there is also
a lot of consistency (same data) between all the slave and master servers. The disadvantage is that if a single
master server is down, then nobody can update or write new articles, and slave servers must elect a new master.
The second is called a master-master architecture which is precisely when each server is a master server (or most)
basically accepting both writes and reads. The data between them is synced up, but it may bring some conflicts...
Some use a combination of both, having few master servers (rather than only 1) and doing syncs between them every
few hours or so I think, where each master server has many of its slave servers around it. Like say having 3
master servers, 1 in USA, 1 in Europe, and 1 in Asia, each of which have many slave servers in their regions.
Though I prefer calling this type a Multi Master-Slave. As for the conflict resolution, that is what we call
reconsaliation, which is when we either merge the changes (if possible), keep the most recent write, or some other
stuff (idk which tho). So Master-Slave vs Master-Master is like Consistency vs Availability.

To improve the Master-Master architecture we introduce Sharding which is basically when we split the data between
the master servers, like if a user is in Lithuania and we have two master servers, one in Lithuania and one in USA,
then the one in Lithuania gets all the users that are in Lithuania and handles them, but doesn't handle any that
are in USA. This is done for more consistency (no conflicts possible now), and doesn't reduce availability, that is
unless the user that is from Lithuania decided to travel to the USA, but that is fixable in many ways.

Remember the principles for databases (ACID)? Well we also have one for distributed database systems (CAP) being:
- C: Consistency which is "every read getting the most recent write", i.e. being up to date without conflicts.
- A: Availability which is "every read and write receives a response", i.e. no timeouts or full servers.
- P: Partition Tolerance which is "works after a (disconnected) split", i.e. splitting up the database into
     multiple servers will retain the functionality and everything will work as usual, even when network is down.
Note that unlike ACID, CAP principles can not be guaranteed for all servers when partitioning is at play. We can
do 2 of these (out of 3), like to ensure consistency (C) and partitioning (P) we can pause the availability (A)
until the data is synchronized and then resume. C and A can be easily resolved if there is no P, and obviously A
and P can be done if we don't value C. To ensure all 3, that is C, A, and P, we need instant syncs no matter the
circumstances which is practically impossible. So it is a trade-off, but P and A are the ones most focus on.



When it comes to database systems, whenever we talk about NoSQL we categorize between multiple (5) types of DBMS:
1. Document: This is basically a database system that is not really structured, like it defines a collection which
   you can add the JSON or XML documents to, and then when you are intereseted in something you search for some
   condition in that collection. In SQL the queries are more fine-grained and you know exactly where to take what
   from where, here it is more less structured and thus searching is more of a hassle (but no joins & such). You
   can actually think of each file as being an instantiated object, and the whole Document DBMS as an array of
   these objects, whereas SQL is a tensor where each matrix is an array of similar objects (in structure).

2. Key-Value: This is the least structured DBMS which is basically like having a single huge table for everything
   with just two collumns: The first collumn is the primary key (ID), and the second one is the value, that's it.
   It's like having an insanely huge hashmap. It mostly works by first getting some data and leaving the quering
   and sorting and such to the application itself. The goal here is to get the data from rows as fast as possible.
   I am not sure here, but I think that values themselves can be re-used again as keys which is what makes it work.

3. Column: This DBMS is like Key-Value one, but with there being multiple key layers. Like a Hashmap within a
   hashmap, and then more hashmaps in that, and so on... Usually there are 3 layers, so a key-key-key-value table.
   Still a single huge table though, but with more structure I suppose. What these keys mean may be different, like
   first key being the section name (so like a table in SQL), second being the value type (so like the table's
   collumn), and third being the primary key (so the row). To me that seems like just SQL, but weirder... I guess
   it gives some structure flexibility (so creating your own structure instead of doing some complex queries).

   There is also a second type of Column based DBMSes, more natural to the name. It is like the rows and columns
   have switched roles, each row is as if a column, and vice versa. It isn't quite like the multi key-value one I
   explained, and is actually fundamentally different from the first explanation. The first one is actually called
   a "Wide-Column" based DBMS, whilst this second explanation is the "Column" based DBMS.

4. Hybrid: Not explained just mentioned, or at least it doesn't seem like it will be as of lecture 24.

5. Graph: We will focus most future lectures on that, check out below for more on it and what it actually is.



--- Lecture 25 ---
When it comes to Graph DBMSes they are the most popular addition of the NoSQL. There are systems like RDF and
SPARQL are the standarts with good documentation, but there are also ones like Neo4j, Cypher, and GQL which aren't
that widely adopted but have good documentation aswell. Note that they are different Graph based DBMSes, and GQL
we will not look at in this course.

At this point I feel like I owe myself at least a general idea of what Graph based DBMS is like, which is hard
because the definition varies; It is... "flexible"? There are mainly 2 types: Knowledge Graphs (KGs) and just
normal Graphs. A normal graph is typically an undirected graph where nodes are some files, images, links, etc.
KGs are graphs, but they are typically directed and there might be multiple such directed edges between any two
nodes. KGs are also always annotated (i.e. have labels on top, both nodes and edges between them). There is also
a third new type called Property Graphs, but for now let's focus on Knowledge Graphs, i.e. RDF and SPARQL.



World Wide Web (WWW) for example is a knowledge graph of websites and such. Google has web scraper bots visiting
all the websites it can find, reading them, and storing these websites + their data into the tables that they have.
So when you use google's search engine there is an algorithm that compares the data and gives the most relevant
links to those websites. The important part is that whenever you google something like "Oslo", and to the right a
bunch of facts about your search appears, like how Oslo is the capital of Norway. That second, important part, is
how an RDF is used. Google it is a knowledge graph (which it is) that they got which takes what you wrote in and
also spits out some of the facts about it (if it has any). Those facts, i.e. leaf-nodes in the RDF, are added
by humans as official or common sense information, or by the scraper bots finding overwhelming amount of the same
data on the topic. Or at least that is how Google manages the information in their RDFs.

The reason as to why RDFs in the examples from the lecture use full URLs (i.e. IRIs), is to remove any ambiguity
when that data is to be linked with some other database system (cuz URLs are unique). This convention was
acknowledged and standartized by the W3C (WWW Consortium - "An entity that manages the whole web"). So if in my
website I have some facts about Oslo like it being a "great city", I can add it to my RDF and classify it as a
description (through some XML file which has a similar URL convention). The URL convention here (i.e. the use of my website's domain) as prefix is done so that whenever I want to merge the data with some other entity they won't
clash. There are public RDFs available such as Wikidata which I can download and merge with my own RDF for a simple
database merge between my DBMS and Wikipedia's DBMS. This is done indepedently by my system and for my system so
that my DBMS can use Wikipedia's DBMS aswell, Wikipedia doesn't do anything of the sort because I didn't share my
RDF and DB, but it's not like Wikipedia wants it in the first place... Theirs is public, ours can be private.

So all of this data is linked in a format called RDF. The "Knowledge" itself which I believe is the data is written in RDF/S and OWL standarts. Quering in this web requires SPARQL. In an RDF graph, the objects are the HTTP links,
and the connections are what's called triples. Triples are of the form subject-predicate-object, where predicate is
an edge going from subject to object. Think of subject, predicate, and object as each being their own column and
the whole RDF knowledge graph as a single table (I think... might be not a single table, idk) where each row is
this subject-predicate-object tuple. This is basically the formal description of what I mentioned earlier, and
please check out the screenshot on RDF prefix examples & data node connections at "L25 - RDF Example.png". To sum
up, RDF is a data model similar to the knowledge graph or something like that I believe, and SPARQL is the query
language used there.



Property graphs were developed by a company called Neo4j having its own query language named Cypher standartized
by ISO in 2024 (Cypher's brand name is GQL I believe, Oracle helped to develop it and did some merging with it
or something like that, idk). So, Property Graph is the model, and Cypher/GQL is the query language used there.

As for the usefulness of all of this you can actually check out a screenshots of what this model does better than
SQL (and by better I mean faster). The first screenshot introduces the problem at "L25 - Useful Graph Algorithm
Types.png", and the second one "L25 - Graph Algorithms Part 1.png" is the actual algorithms that solve their
respective problems (the top algorithm is for the top type, and the other 2 alrogithms is about Centralities
part only, Community detection is what we gonna describe next). Community detection isn't really explained in
detail (like what a community or a cut is), but here is an image anyways "L25 - Graph Algorithms Part 2.png".
Apparently this community detection is about clustering and such, though again, idk what that is exactly. But we
have seen some machine learning on graphs which do talk about that from IN3050.



--- Lecture 26 ---
So uh... We are back to talking more about RDFs and how they work apparently, yay! :D I think I already did mention
quite a lot on them to be honest (googled), but I finally get the full explanation in person. So, RDF is described
as the language that allows us to make statements about "resources", such as "John is father of Bill", kind of
like first-order logic, specifically where we got a bunch of pair variables/constants and 2-arity predicates. For
example, "ex:father-of(ex:john, ex:bill)" where "ex:" is the http://my-domain.com/ prefix (in IRI form which I
explained before). This specific example (and all the possible examples) always follow this structure when
translated to first-order logic. We got a triplet where the subject is john, predicate is father-of, and object is
bill, but in RDF's language it looks more like "(ex:john ex:father-of ex:bill)" where " " is the delimeter, "ex:"
is the prefix, and parantheses define the whole triplet. An RDF set has many triplets each of which are separated
by a "." as the delimeter. Subject, predicate, and object all have to be resources, but subject and object can also
be blank (no input). Additionally object can be a literal. As for what a resource is exactly my guess is that it is
some thing that we got in our database or something the database stores information about or can store. Perhaps a
table, a tuple in it, an attribute type, or a variable, anything that we want to define basically. As for a literal
it is a concrete piece of data such as text, number, boolean, etc. Whenever we leave a blank (or maybe also in some
other situations) we may also use other vocabulary like rdf:type which are some pre-defined stuff by the RDF. Also,
note that the way the syntax is and the visualization is in "Turtle" format, because there are multiple ways to
draw stuff and such (like XML format and more, but idk how they look, differ, and by how much). But I believe that
Turtle syntax is the use of "." and " " as delimeters (without the parantheses, these weren't really necessary).

So the RDF graph is a set of these triples which is often visualized as a single labelled directed multi-graph,
i.e. a Knowledge Graph (KG). Though sometimes in our visualization some predicates can be represented as a node.
You should check out the screenshots on it for easier explanation (I believe they are better than my explanations
and go more into details than I do here). Anyways, there are common structures in our RDF graphs that we have a
syntax for (to simplify) called containers. There are 3 in total: "bag", "seq", and "alt". Bag is when we use can
use empty ovals (depends on what is empty) to describe whether the connected parts are all part of a single parent
oval (i.e. subject is parent to object) (also unordered), a part of a single object and in that specific order, or
alternatives to some of the other children that the parents have. It's best to look at screenshots for this one...
But note that in the visualization (which is of the rdf:bag) it is all just a convention, and you can make it
look horribly wrong to confuse everyone because nothing enforces anything here, not the label names not when and
where you use the "rdf:bag" and such, nor how many u can have. Like it wouldn't make sense to have both "rdf:bag"
and "rdf:alt", but we can do that. Just note that it has to be readable to the application, that is the point.
There are even lists of triplets called collections, all of it is kinda confusing but it reminds me of the Maude
System I learned in IN2100, just because the end of the collection is "nil" in the screenshot to be honest. I'd
think of it as a linked list to be honest. There are also "Reification"s which is basically how we represent
statements in this RDF graph, again check out screenshot for more details cuz I am too lazy & tired right now.
Though I don't have a visualization of Reification, I drew it myself as I went with the lecture and I got it ez.
Reification is just a convention to simplify the number of edges and easily connect some new stuff, nothing
changes in our RDF graph semanticly (but applications might disagree).



Now to the SPARQL which is the RDF's query language. Technically we can translate RDF into an SQL and use SQL
queuring, but that is what we want to avoid in the first place, so we got SPARQL to work with RDFs efficiently. It
is similar to SQL syntax, and uses the RDF's Turtle syntax too, you actually need to look at some examples here.
Note that "?" is a variable prefix. It's like using SQL syntax to describe what you want to query (generally),
and using RDF Turtle's syntax to describe precisely what subjects, predicates, and objects you want. SPARQL and
RDF is basically like having an already self-joined table in SQL (which is what it is slow at, joining). Note
that although there are extra commands like "REDUCED" with SQL's "SELECT", the "REDUCED" doesn't actually exist
in the SQL itself, but it does in SPARQL, though lots is very similar (except for FROM, NULLs, etc.).

A pretty cool task that was in some of the exams is how to implement the SPARQL's OPTIONAL query addition to the
WHERE. The idea is probably to look for whatever it is and simply ignore it if there is a NULL, but I am not sure
about if relational algebra has NULLs and such, I don't really remember .-.

Also, note that in SQL we got tuples, whilst in SPARQL we got mappings. The difference is that a mapping apparently
can store something that is undefined, not really sure what that means cuz I skipped all the examples and
explanations, but I am sure you will look at them (or Claude will explain briefly). Also, SQL gives both tables
as outputs and takes them in as inputs to search over (perhaps multiple), but SPARQL takes in RDF Graphs as
inputs and mappings as outputs, "a weird mismatch".



--- Lecture 27 ---
Next we gonna talk about RDFS and OWL which is about implicit logic. I.e. if some subject A such as John is a
type of some object B such as Student, and say all subjects B (i.e. Students) are a sub class of C (such as
Persons), then we can derive the fact that all subjects A (such as John) being of type B (like Students) are also
of type C (so People). In RDF this is written as "A rdf:type B . B rdf:subClassOf C" then "A rdf:type C", that is
implicit logic, check out a screenshot for how to write it, but it is similar to INN3070's derivation trees. In
fact, OWL (Web Ontology Language) is literally THE language I learned at the end of IN3070's course.



Moving on, now we gonna talk more about Neo4j's Property Graphs (PGs) and its query engine Cypher (GQL is also a
query language used with Property Graphs, but we ignore it here). SPARQL is similar to SQL, but Cypher is
completely different. That is because SPARQL isn't optimized to quering graphs, whilst Cypher was designed for it.
SPARQL just wanted something familiar to SQL to make the transition easier for everyone. Cypher's language is even
optimized for traversing and quering graphs, unlike SPARQL.

You can actually see the difference between PGs and RDFs once you familiarize youself with PG from the screenshot
"L27 - Property Graph (PG) Introduction.png". It is more structured and simplier to work with, but KGs can still
do everything that PGs can. This structure though allows for more optimizations (but it depends sometimes I think).

P.S. The next part which is the syntax part is slightly wrong, writing just "()" for example won't do a query, you
must also add a "MATCH" and "RETURN". Creating nodes and connections requires the use of "CREATE", and even after
writing a CREATE you can write the next CREATE command using the previous command's variables. I believe that it
is this way until we issue a RETURN at which point the whole command is finalized, but we don't use any ending
symbols so I am not sure about that, maybe it is a single file that is one single command, or maybe there are no
"\n"s in there and pressing Enter on keyboard finalizes it, idk... 

As for Cypher it is best to just check out the screenshots I took from the lecture to familiarize youself with
both the syntax and semantics. So we got Nodes and Relationships between those Nodes, so when we query we might
want just any nodes, or maybe some nodes with specific relationships, and so on... Here are some examples: "()" is
simply like doing "SELECT *" from the current schema (here we got a single graph, think of it as having a single
schema in our whole database as the equivalent in SQL). Next, "(node)" is like doing "SELECT * AS node WHERE
node...", so name here is basically a variable we can refer to in our query, kind of like how we do it in RDF to
then impose restrictions on it. Then, "(node:Movie)" is like doing "SELECT * AS node WHERE node.Movie IS NOT NULL".
Also, think of "node.type" as a column in our SQL table that only movies got. You can also do just "(:Movie)", but
idk how to translate it to SQL without refering to the column :/ And for more control we can do specific value
restrictions such as "(node:Movie {title: "Shrek", released: 2001})" which can be roughly translate to the "Select
* AS node WHERE node.type = Movie AND node.title = 'Shrek' AND node.released = 2001".

In Cypher, if you are looking for X that is related to something else like Y (like subject to object via predicate
in RDF, i.e. a triple), then you use arrows and square brackets like. It is best to look at the screenshot for
this one where a predicate is the one inside "[...]" and both subject and object are each in their own "(...)"
connected with a "-" and a "->" to show direction of who is the subject and who is the object, i.e. which
type of connection we want (so the connection type's direction). Note that the colors in these images are for
clarity and don't represent different objects or classes or anything of the sort. Also, note that clauses "()"
are not only used for quering, it can also be used for creation, filtering, etc.

If statements are more like using "MERGE" and "ON" together, it is best explained with an example, so check out
the "L27 - Cypher Merge.png" for how it is done and how it may be used and such. As for specific value comparisons
of comparisons between nodes we use "WHERE", kind of like in SQL, but usually used for exactly what I said only.
Also, note that deleting an object (i.e. a node) might fail if it is connected to some relation (i.e. an edge),
and when deleting the node, to remove all of its connection automatically you can just use the "DETACH" addition.