--- Assets, Threat Actors, & CIA ---
Where there are assets we want to protect, there is security mechanisms that protect it from threats caused by
attackers. I.e. malicious actors that threaten those assets. So, this is what we want to do:
1. Figure out what we want to protect, i.e. what are our assets and their value.
2. Build countermeasures based on the knowledge of what we think the attacker may be capable of.

When we are talking about security and asset protection we separate it into these 3 axioms we call CIA:
C: Confidentiality - Assets are to be accessed by an authenticated and authorized entity.
I: Integrity - Restricted assets are not to be accessed by an unauthorized entity.
A: Availability - Assets are to be available for access by an authorized entity at all times.

Note how Authenticity is a key aspect in all of those. Privacy is mostly a part of confidentiality and is about
access (I.e. reading part, not just the writing part which is what Integrity is about I presume?). Obviously to
verify authenticity some private information must be given, so they kinda clash, but up to the point we are certain.
Lastly non-repudiation which is about denying access for unauthorized entities, same goes for if we think that the
private information used to authorize has been compromised & such.

Motivations for attack can be many, but usually it is some monetary gain. Sometimes it is revenge or some
religious/political motive, but it might also be just for the fun of it which is actually not as uncommon as you'd
imagine, but rare still...



--- Vulnerabilities, Strategies, & Classifications ---
Attack classifications & strategies: P.S. Those achieve different goals
1. Service: DOS & DDOS, usually using botnets & zombies - i.e. infected devices.
2. Communication: Eavesdropping & Modification, possible with MiTM - can do Sniffing, Packet Replay, etc.
3. Stored Data: Vandalism, Deletion, Ransomware, Espionage, etc. Usually via backdoors, or exploits in supply chain.

There is a famous example of hacking the cameras from all around the world since they got access to the internet,
act as end-to-end devices, and although slow can be turned into massive botnets to send mass requests which even
CloudFlare and Google struggle to keep up with. This DDOS attacks are very effective and can be bought, cheap >:)