We have solved confidentiality and integrity, but the only thing we didn't consider is our public key being
spoofed by an active attacker, and if that happens then the attacker can simply use their own private key and
basically become the MiTM. That't what we need to solve to establish a HTTPS, so HTTP & TLS for a secure
connection, and that is where the certificates come in.

A certificate is a digital signature of a public key, which means that we use someone else's public key to assert
that this public key we got can be trusted. So we need proof that some website Alice really is Alice and not spoofed by Eve. Note how that creates a problem of getting that someone else's public key. But Bob which is the
one that signed the Alice's public key is assumed to be trusted. In fact Bob is signing everyone's public
keys once they have proven themselves to him. Since nobody can vouch for Bob, he is considered a root-CA, who is
someone everyone simply trusts, like Microsoft for example is a root-CA. There aren't many like Bob, so his
public key can simply be added manually and maintained in OSes, browsers, and various apps.

Trust has multiple steps: You trust Bob who signs the certificates (your choice, like trusting microsoft's PCs
and their OS to have non-malicious entities), and Bob must verify each website that tries to get its certificate.
To verify the website and grant it a certificate, Bob requests owner of the domain (i.e. website) to do something
which only it can do like add a new HTML file just for that. There are more ways, but I don't remember...

Root-CAs may be overwhelmed (though in reality it does not happen, but good design is always appreciated), so to
fix that root-CAs can issue CA certificates that allow other websites to also vouch for someone, these are called
intermediate-CAs. Getting a CA certificate is supposedly hard, and none of these intermediate-CAs have their
public keys in the OS or browsers & such (there are simply too many). So instead the browser for example tries to
see who the intermediate-CA got its certificate from, and it goes along this chain until it finds one issued by a
root-Ca it has in its database.

For that the certificates have additional information. Today's format is called X.509 I believe which has a bunch
of information about who issued the certificate, how and who to contact if an intermediate-CA went rogue, who the
certificate was issued for, and for how long it is valid (to prevent indefinite misues in case of losing one).

Here are some of these variables one will find in the X.509 certificate:
- Subject: The website the certificate applies to (which DNS and its domain name).
- Algorithm: Which algorithm is used to create the digital signature (like RSA for example).
- Issue/Subject: info about the website like location (why though?).
- Validity: how long it is used for (like if RSA is broken or u gave it away u got 1 year to misuse that).
- Public Key: The public key of the subject (kinda the goal here).

Some intermediary CAs are insecure, lie, or can be bribed to create false certificates for malicious users. To
avoid that there is a system called (CAA) which idk what is, how works, nor is it really that secure but it is
used today. But today's actually good and modern solution is CT (certificate transparency), which is basically
a public log of all the certificates today (a website), and each website creator goes and checks if anyone has
falsified their certificates so it may report it, but I don't really know how that reporting is done, works, and
if it prevents users from connecting to the wrongly certified websites. The problem is bribery and illegal stuff
which is where the falsified certificates are intentionally aren't put in this global website containing "all"
certificates. The fix is to make CAs to require the confirmation of the log servers (which can also be bribed?),
but not all may be bribed at once so we actually log it on to many log servers from different companies (usually
just 2 as of today). Today browsers check that themselves I think, i.e. it must be logged? Well at least FireFox
managed to check that itself, somehow...



Notes:
- If the website does not use TLS, i.e. it is just HTTP and the connection is not encrypted, then most browsers
  raise a warning near the address link (url). That is because TLS is kinda the default now.
- Operating systems have a list of root certificates, but some apps and browsers have their own instead of OS-es.
- Root certificates are self signed. If I were to self sign my public key to create a certificate it would yield
  nothing unless it would get added in my OS-es or browsers database of root-CAs.
- If certificate was stolen or such the certificate can be revoked. To check if it was revoked each time a
  certificate is to be verified by Alice at the Bob's website. Though a certificate validation can be
  compromised (today too), so OS-es and browsers simply ignore the certificate validation process (not a joke).
  But at least FireFox doesn't ignore that (checked by professor during lecture).
- "Let's Encrypt" is an entity that gives certificates for free (still need to pass a check). It is an app you
  install on your server that verifies all of the stuff and renewes the certificates too, automatically. The
  problem of that is the verification process which still allows for spoofing...
- badssl.com is a website that tests the browser and other security stuff (like when it should complain and warn).
- CA/Browser Forum is where all the popular websites & such come together to agree on stuff, like certificate
  lifetime which will be reduced from a year to 47 days in like 2029.