--- Lecture 3 ---
SQL is not a 100% accurate representation of the relational datamodel that we know from theory, so theory in this
case doesn't translate to practice directly. For example, SQL has a NULL value, and the outputs that SQL gives us
might have the same rows (repetitions), note that this only applies to outputs from the queries that we get.

To allow repetitions in our relational datamodel, we can simply redefine the relation schema to consist of not
sets, but finite "bags". Bags basically allow duplications, but the order still does not matter. Bags are written
as double curly brackets, e.g. {{a, a, b, c}} or {{a, b, a, c}}. Note that both are equal, but not to {{a, b, c}}.
By the way, if we are using primary keys, then we can not be using bags (due to repetitions), only sets.

It is important to note that SQL makes order matter due to ORDERED BY command which sorts stuff lexicographicly.
Our current description so far doesn't account for that, and we won't because "it is rare in practice and
complicates everything substantially", and "every constraint added restricts the optimizations that we can do". SQL
solves this by having a hybrid model, so when order matters, it switches to the less efficient model. Sometimes it
is best to keep the current model and just add special cases to these situations, but that would require lots of
work and repetition to cover all the special cases, so it is often not done.

Something I did not mention before, is that SQL is divided into 4 parts: DDL, DML, DQL, and DCL. DDL is the part of
SQL that manages table create, alter, and drop commands. DML handles the population of the table with data provided
by the insert and delete commands. DQL handles queries, so the select command. And DCL handles user access to
different commands by handling grant and revoke commands. There might be more than 4, but they are not mentioned.

--- Lecture 4 ---
SQL is not turing complete, meaning that there are things we can not express (do) that a turing machine can. So
languages like Python, Java, C++, all of these are turing complete and can do things SQL can't. For SQL it is good,
because it some problems it wasn't designed to do. It was made to solve some specific tasks, and limiting SQL's
expressiveness allows more room for optimization under the hood. Similarly for HTML, for other tasks you combine
and use these other more expressive languages.

However, SQL can become turing complete with the use of recursive queries, e.g. queries that call themselves, kind
of like recursive methods in Java. I won't go into the detail of how it is done (Google if interested), but the
idea is that it can be done, just shouldn't since it is much less optimal than doing something like that through
Java or C++. You can check out an example of when it might be useful in "Recursive SQL Example.png". Note that some
recursive queries might never halt, but this one always does because it either adds a new city to the list on next
iteration, or it doesn't. The moment it doesn't is when we halt, and since the input database is finite, the time
it will take to halt is too.

By the way, when it comes to NULLs there is a command called COALESCE({a}, {b}, ...) which returns the first thing
that isn't a NULL from these inputs. Typically used as COALESCE(Table.Address, "not given") for missing data.

--- Lecture 5 ---
We repeat on how aggregation works, e.g. counting methods like count(), max(), min(), etc. Important note, when we
translate our SQL query from user input to relational algebra, the WHERE and HAVING become identical operations, so
basically there is no difference between the two, it is simply "conventional and convenient to use".

Also a reminder, count({collumn}) counts how many rows where the collumn doesn't have a NOT NULL value, where as
count(*) doesn't care about the values, just the amount of rows that exist, so NULLs are accepted, even if the
whole row is filled with just NULLs, it doesn't matter.

Also, check out "This Course's Definition of Algebra.png" which is basically describes what algebra is in this
course, and that it actually stands for "Algebraic Structure". There are some more stuff we should know about like
Regular Expressions from IN2080, and equivalences (also known as Algebraic Laws) from IN1150. But we know that.